"5/16/1995--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Supplementals and Rescissions Title II: General Provisions Title III: Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Additional Disaster Assistance, for Anti-terrorism Initiatives, for Assistance in the Recovery from the Tragedy that Occurred at Oklahoma City, and Rescissions Act, 1995\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Supplementals and Rescissions\n    Makes FY 1995 additional supplemental appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, and the Commodity Credit Corporation. Allocates Food and Nutrition Service funding. Transfers funds to the Agricultural Research Service. Rescinds appropriations made to the Department of Agriculture for the Office of the Secretary, alternative agricultural research and commercialization, the Agricultural Research Service, the Cooperative State Research Service, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, the Rural Development Administration and Farmers Home Administration, the Alcohol Fuels Credit Guarantee Program, the Rural Electrification Administration, the Food and Nutrition Service, and the Foreign Agricultural Service. Makes FY 1995 additional supplemental appropriations to: (1) the National Bankruptcy Review Commission (transfer of funds); and (2) the Board for International Broadcasting. Rescinds appropriations to the: (1) Department of Justice for the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Office of Justice Programs, general administration, legal activities, and the Federal Prison System; (2) the Department of Commerce for the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the GOES Satellite Contingency Fund, technology administration, the National Technical Information Service, the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, and the Economic Development Administration; (3) the Judiciary for the United States Court of International Trade and for defender services and the fees of jurors and commissioners; (4) the Small Business Administration; (5) the Department of State; (6) the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; (7) the Board for International Broadcasting; and (8) the United States Information Agency. Delineates reductions to the Legal Services Corporation included in a prior rescission of funds. Rescinds appropriations made to the: (1) Corps of Engineers- Civil; (2) the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior; (3) the Department of Energy; (4) the Appalachian Regional Commission; and (5) the Tennessee Valley Authority Fund. Rescinds funds appropriated to the President for economic, military, and export assistance. Rescinds appropriations made to the: (1) Department of the Interior for the Bureau of Land Management, the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Biological Survey, the National Park Service, the Minerals Management Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and territorial and international affairs; (2) the Department of Agriculture for the Forest Service; (3) the Department of Energy for fossil energy research and development and energy conservation; and (4) the Department of Education for the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Rescinds appropriations made to the Smithsonian Institution, the National Gallery of Art, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. \n    Section\n    501\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds being used by the Department of the Interior to search for the Alabama sturgeon.  \n    Section\n    502\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the Forest Service from using funds to implement Habitat Conservation areas in the Tongass National Forest, Alaska, for species not declared threatened or endangered, except for goshawks, as specified.  \n    Section\n    503\n     - \n    \n    Provides that, for specified timber, an environmental impact statement or a subsistence evaluation for a timber sale or offering to one party shall be deemed sufficient if the Forest Service sells to an alternate buyer.  \n    Section\n    504\n     - \n    \n    Requires each National Forest System unit to establish and adhere to a schedule for the completion of National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 analysis and decisions on all allotments within the unit for which analysis is needed. Provides for the renewal of grazing permits on lands in the National Forest System, as specified. Rescinds appropriations made to the Department of Labor for the Employment and Training Administration and the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Rescinds appropriations made to the Department of Health and Human Services for the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, the Health Care Financing Administration, the Administration for Children and Families, the Administration on Aging, and the Office of the Secretary. Rescinds appropriations made to specified Department of Education programs, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, and the Railroad Retirement Board.  \n    Section\n    601\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to decrease the appropriated funds for FY 1995 for the Federal Direct Student Loan Program.  \n    Section\n    602\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits 1995 funding for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration from being used to promulgate or issue any proposed or final standard or guideline regarding ergonomic protection. Rescinds funds made available to the Legislative Branch for: (1) the payments to widows and heirs of decreased Members of Congress; (2) the Joint Economic Committee and the Joint Committee on Printing; (3) the Office of Technology Assessment for salaries and expenses; (4) the Congressional Budget Office for salaries and expenses; (5) the Architect of the Capitol for Capitol buildings and grounds; (6) the Government Printing Office for congressional printing and binding and salaries and expenses; (7) the Botanic Garden for salaries and expenses; (8)the Library of Congress for salaries and expenses; and (9) the General Accounting Office for salaries and expenses. Authorizes GAO to make payments to employees voluntarily retiring or resigning. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of Transportation (DOT) for: (1) the Office of the Secretary; (2) the Coast Guard; (3) the Federal Aviation Administration; (4) the Federal Highway Administration; (5) the Federal Railroad Administration; and (6) the Federal Transit Administration. Reduces certain obligation limitations for DOT. Makes additional supplemental appropriations for the liquidation of mass transit capital programs.  \n    Section\n    801\n     - \n    \n    Rescinds funds from the DOT working capital fund.  \n    Section\n    802\n     - \n    \n    Cancels a specified amount for DOT civilian and military compensation and benefits permanently. Makes FY 1995 additional supplemental appropriations to the General Services Administration and the Office of Personnel Management. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of the Treasury for departmental offices, the Financial Management Service, the United States Mint, the Bureau of the Public Debt, and the Internal Revenue Service. Makes additional supplemental appropriations to the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center. Rescinds funds made available to the Executive Office of the President for the White House Office and Federal drug control programs. Rescinds funds made available to the General Services Administration for specified projects of the Federal Buildings Fund, salaries and expenses of the Federal Election Commission, and salaries and expenses of the Office of Personnel Management.  \n    Section\n    901\n     - \n    \n    Amends Federal law concerning availability pay for criminal investigators in certain Offices of Inspectors General and for U.S. Customs Service pilots. Makes FY 1995 additional supplemental appropriations: (1) to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for disaster relief; (2) to the National Flood Insurance Fund (transfer of funds); and (3) for activities of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the Bank Enterprise Act of 1991. Rescinds funds made available to: (1) the Department of Veterans Affairs for medical care and major projects construction; and (2) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for housing programs.  \n    Section\n    1001\n     - \n    \n    Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to: (1) permit a public housing agency to use modernization assistance for any eligible activity, including demolition, replacement housing, and temporary relocation assistance, authorized by this or other applicable appropriations Acts; (2) permit replacement units to be built on the site of the original demolished public housing unit only if the number of replacement units is significantly less than the number of units demolished; (3) repeal provisions prohibiting public housing projects from transferring title unless there is Federal funding assistance providing for a unit for unit replacement for each transfer; and (4) permit the reuse of any budget authority that is recaptured on account of termination of a housing assistance payments contract only for one or more the following, tenant-based assistance or project-based assistance. Rescinds funds made available to the: (1) Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; (2) Community Development Financial Institutions Fund; (3) Corporation for National and Community Service; (4) Environmental Protection Agency; (5) National Aeronautics and Space Administration; (6) National Science Foundation; and (7) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.  \n    Section\n    1004\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits FY 1995 funds appropriated to EPA from being used to: (1) require any State to comply with specified Clean Act requirements concerning vehicle inspection and maintenance; (2) require any State to implement trip reduction measures to reduce vehicular emissions; (3) list any additional facilities on the National Priorities List under CERCLA, subject to stated exceptions; or (4) disapprove a State Implementation Plan revision solely on the basis of EPA's regulatory 50 percent discount for alternative test- and-repair inspection and maintenance programs.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Directs the Secretary concerned to: (1) prepare, offer, and award contracts for salvage timber sales from Federal lands; and (2) perform reforestation operations in the salvage area. Subjects such sales to judicial review only in the United States district court for the district in which the affected Federal lands are located. Permits such an action only if made within 15 days after the initial advertisement of the challenged timber sale. \n    Section\n    2002\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits any part of any appropriation in this Act from being used beyond the current fiscal year, unless expressly authorized.  \n    Section\n    2003\n     - \n    \n    Provides for downward adjustments in discretionary spending limits.  \n    Section\n    2004\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits reductions in spending resulting from this Act from being used to offset deficit increases resulting from spending or receipts legislation.  \n    Section\n    2005\n     - \n    \n    Designates July 27 of each year until the year 2003 as National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.  \n    Section\n    2006\n     - \n    \n    Denies the use of funds made available in this Act from being used to benefit individuals not lawfully in the United States, when such benefit is for other than specified emergency services.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations\n    Establishes the Counterterrorism Fund. Appropriates a specified sum to the Fund to reimburse any Department of Justice organization for: (1) the costs in reestablishing the operational capability of any office or facility damaged as a result of the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City; or (2) other activities related to countering domestic or international terrorism. Makes additional supplemental appropriations to the Department of Justice for expenses related to the bombing of such building, including the establishment of a Domestic Counter-terrorism Center. Makes additional supplemental appropriations to: (1) the Judiciary for court security; and (2) the Department of the Treasury for emergency expenses resulting from the Oklahoma City bombing. Increases the aggregate limitation on Federal Buildings Fund obligations to be expended in connection with expenses related to the Oklahoma City bombing. Makes additional supplemental appropriations to: (1) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for emergency expenses resulting from the Oklahoma City bombing; and (2) the Federal Emergency Management Agency for expenses related to increasing the preparedness for and mitigating the consequences of terrorism."