"10/13/1998--Passed Senate amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Salton Sea Feasibility Study Title II: Emergency Action to Improve Water Quality in the Alamo River and New River Salton Sea Reclamation Act of 1998\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Salton Sea Feasibility Study\n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior, by January 1, 2000, to complete all feasibility studies and cost analyses with respect to a feasibility study for the reclamation of the Salton Sea, located in Imperial and Riverside Counties, California, which shall include options for achieving salinity reduction and stabilization, stabilizing surface elevation, restoring fish and wildlife resources, and enhancing recreational use and economic development. Requires a report to specified congressional committees containing proposed options and recommendations. Directs the Secretary to carry out the study under a memorandum of understanding entered into by the Secretary, the Salton Sea Authority, and the Governor of California. Prohibits the inclusion of any option that relies on the importation of any new or additional water from the Colorado River. Preserves all current rights and obligations concerning Colorado River water use. Directs the Secretary to conduct, concurrently with the feasibility study, studies of hydrology, wildlife pathology, and toxicology relating to wildlife resources of the Salton Sea by Federal and non-Federal sources. Directs the Secretary to establish the Salton Sea Research Management Committee to select and manage such studies. Authorizes appropriations. Renames the Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge as the Sonny Bono Salton Sea National Wildlife Refuge.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Emergency Action to Improve Water Quality in the Alamo River and New River\n    Authorizes and directs the Secretary to promptly conduct research and construct river reclamation and wetlands projects to improve water quality in the Alamo and New Rivers in Imperial County, California, by treating water in those rivers and irrigation drainage water that flows into those rivers. Directs the Secretary to establish a long-term monitoring program to maximize the effectiveness of any wetlands developed under this Act. Authorizes appropriations."