"3/12/1998--Passed House amended. Government Performance and Results Act Technical Amendments of 1998 - Amends provisions of Federal law enacted by the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 to require the annual strategic plans of agencies to: (1) be explicitly linked to their statutory or other legal authorities; (2) identify agency functions that are similar to those of either more than one component of the agency or to those of other agencies and explain coordination efforts; (3) describe certain major management problems and measures to resolve such problems; (4) assess the reliability of the agency's data sources; (5) set forth requirements concerning the format of the plan; and (6) apply plan requirements to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Federal Reserve banks, but only with respect to operations and functions that are not directly related to the establishment and conduct of U.S. monetary policy. Prohibits the Federal Reserve Board and banks from being required to submit strategic plans to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. Requires the Director to prepare and submit to the Congress an annual integrated Federal Government performance report which shall include actual results and accomplishments from the previous fiscal year. Sets forth provisions for inspector general review of annual performance plans and annual program performance reports of agencies. Requires the full costs of each program activity to be used as performance indicators with respect to such performance plans. Prohibits the Federal Reserve Board and banks from being required to submit annual performance plans to the Director. Requires the Board and banks to submit to the Congress such performance plans containing the information required, but only with respect to operations and functions that are not directly related to the establishment and conduct of U.S. monetary policy. Prohibits the Board and banks from being required to submit program performance reports to the President. Prohibits the Director from exempting the Council on Environmental Quality from agency requirements of the Act relating to performance plans, program performance reports, and strategic plans. Amends provisions of Federal law enacted by the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 to: (1) extend the deadline for agencies to submit the first of annual audited financial statements; and (2) require that such statements be submitted to the Congress (in addition to the Director)."