"4/29/1998--Passed House amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    National Dialogue on Social Security Title II: Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security Reform National Dialogue on Social Security Act of 1998\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    National Dialogue on Social Security\n    Directs the President, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Majority Leader of the Senate to jointly convene a National Dialogue (ND) on the Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance (OASDI) program under title II of the Social Security Act. Makes ND's stated purpose to engage the American public, through regional conferences and national Internet exchanges, in understanding OASDI, its problems, and the need for workable solutions and to generate public comments and recommendations for social security reform. Establishes a Dialogue Council to advise the two national Facilitators appointed to administer and coordinate ND in its development and operations, the final plans for such to be transmitted to the President and the Congress by the Facilitators. Requires ND to operate by means of private sponsorship. Authorizes each Member of Congress, to the extent practicable, to develop with grassroots organizations and other constituency groups within the Member's district ongoing systems of communication through the Internet to assure the widest possible degree of receipt of public opinion. Establishes an Internet Advisory Board to advise the Internet Dialogue Coordinator appointed by the Facilitators to assist Members in establishing such systems of communication with regard to the most appropriate and effective means of employing the Internet to generate constituency input. Requires the Coordinator to establish a national dialogue web site. Authorizes appropriations from the general fund of the Treasury.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security Reform\n    Establishes the Bipartisan Panel to Design Long-Range Social Security Reform, which shall design, and report to the President and specified congressional committees, a single set of legislative and administrative recommendations for long-range reforms for restoring the solvency of the social security system and for maintaining retirement income security. Expresses the sense of the Congress that, pending the Panel's report, the Federal unified budget surplus should be dedicated to reducing the Federal debt held by the public, increasing the retirement income security of individuals, and insuring the solvency of the social security system. Authorizes appropriations from the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund."