"7/27/2010--Public Law. (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on May 27, 2010. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2010 - Makes emergency supplemental appropriations for FY2010. \n    Title\n    I - Chapter 1\n     - \n    Department of Agriculture\n    Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Agriculture for the Farm Service Agency's Agricultural Credit Insurance Fund Program Account, the Emergency Forest Restoration Program, and the Foreign Agricultural Service's Food for Peace Title II Grants for emergency relief and rehabilitation for Haiti. Chapter 2: Department of Commerce - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Commerce for: (1) the Economic Development Administration for disaster relief, recovery, and restoration of infrastructure in states that experienced damage from severe storms and flooding during March-May 2010; and (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for expenses related to commercial fishery failures. Rescinds funds made available for the National Telecommunications and Information Administration for the Digital-to-Analog Converter Box Program. Requires funds previously made available for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Exploration to be available to fund continued performance of Constellation contracts. Chapter 3: Department of Defense--Military - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Defense (DOD) for: (1) military personnel, operation and maintenance (including for relief activities in Haiti), procurement, and research, development, test, and evaluation; (2) the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund; (3) the Iraq Security Forces Fund; (4) the Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicle Fund; (5) Defense Working Capital Funds; (6) the Defense Health Program; and (7) Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities. \n    Section\n    308\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director of National Intelligence to submit to the congressional intelligence committees: (1) the charter and procedures for the interagency body established to carry out an interrogation pursuant to a recommendation of the report of the Special Task Force on Interrogation and Transfer Policies submitted under Executive Order 13491 (commonly known as the High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group); and (2) a report on lessons learned from such Group. Chapter 4: Department of Defense--Civil - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to DOD for FY2010 to the Corps of Engineers for Investigations, the Mississippi River and Tributaries, Operation and Maintenance, and Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies.  \n    Section\n    401\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available for drought emergency assistance. Authorizes financial assistance under the Reclamation States Emergency Drought Relief Act of 1991 for the optimization and conservation of project water supplies to assist drought-plagued areas of the West.  \n    Section\n    406\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary of the Army to use specified funds, at full federal expense, to make dredged material available from maintenance dredging of existing federal navigation channels located in the Gulf Coast region to mitigate the impacts of the Deepwater Horizon Oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. Directs the Secretary to coordinate the placement of dredged material with appropriate federal and Gulf Coast state agencies. Provides that: (1) the placement of such dredged material shall not be subject to a least-cost-disposal analysis or to the development of a Chief of Engineers report; and (2) nothing in this section shall affect the ability or authority of the federal government to recover costs from an entity determined to be a responsible party in connection with the spill. Chapter 5: Department of the Treasury - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of the Treasury for Salaries and Expenses for necessary expenses for emergency relief, rehabilitation, reconstruction aid, and other expenses and disaster-response activities related to Haiti following the earthquake of January 12, 2010. Rescinds specified funds made available to the Office of Inspector General for Salaries and Expenses. Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to: (1) the District of Columbia for the Federal Payment to the Public Defender Service (rescinds an equal amount); and (2) the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. Chapter 6: Department of Homeland Security - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for: (1) the Coast Guard, including for necessary expenses and other disaster-response activities related to the earthquake in Haiti; (2) the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster relief; and (3) United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) for necessary expenses and other disaster response activities related to the Haiti earthquake.  \n    Section\n    603\n     - \n    \n    Directs the FEMA Administrator to consider the non-federal match requirement for assistance provided by FEMA under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act with respect to hazard mitigation to be satisfied for Hurricane Katrina.  \n    Section\n    607\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to issue a security directive that requires a commercial foreign air carrier that operates flights in and out of the United States to check the list of individuals that TSA has prohibited from flying not later than 30 minutes after such list is modified and provided to such carrier, except for such carriers that are enrolled in the Secure Flight program or that are Advance Passenger Information System Quick Query compliant. Chapter 7: Department of Labor - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to: (1) the Department of Labor for Departmental Management for mine safety activities and legal services related to the Department's caseload before the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission; (2) the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for necessary expenses for emergency relief, reconstruction aid, and other expenses and disaster-response activities related to Haiti following the earthquake; and (3) the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Chapter 8: House of Representatives - Appropriates specified funds to: (1) the House of Representatives for a payment to Joyce Murtha, widow of John P. Murtha, late a Representative from Pennsylvania; and (2) the Capitol Police to purchase and install a portion of a new radio system. Chapter 9: Military Construction - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds for: (1) Military Construction, Army and Air Force; (2) Family Housing Operation and Maintenance, Air Force; and (3) the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for Compensation and Pensions.  \n    Section\n    902\n     - \n    \n    Limits the obligation or expenditure of funds available to the VA until the expiration of the period for congressional disapproval under the Congressional Review Act of the regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a service connection between exposure of veterans to Agent Orange during service in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era and hairy cell leukemia and other chronic B cell leukemias, Parkinson's disease, and ischemic heart disease. Chapter 10: Department of State - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of State for: (1) Diplomatic and Consular Programs; (2) the Office of Inspector General for Oversight of operations and programs in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq; (3) Embassy Security Construction, and Maintenance for necessary expenses for emergency needs in Haiti; (4) Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities for necessary expenses for emergency security in Haiti; (5) Migration and Refugee Assistance; and (6) International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement, including assistance for Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Haiti. Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds for: (1) International Broadcasting Operations for emergency broadcasting support and other expenses related to Haiti; (2) the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) for the Office of Inspector General for necessary expenses for oversight of operations and programs in Afghanistan and Pakistan and oversight of emergency relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to Haiti; (3) Global Health and Child Survival for necessary expenses for pandemic preparedness and response; (4) International Disaster Assistance for emergency relief and rehabilitation, and other expenses related to Haiti; (5) the Economic Support Fund, including for assistance for Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Jordan and for emergency relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid and other expenses related to the Haiti earthquake; (6) the Department of the Treasury for International Affairs Technical Assistance for necessary expenses for emergency relief, rehabilitation, and reconstruction aid, and other expenses related to Haiti following the earthquake; and (7) the Foreign Military Financing Program for assistance for Pakistan and Jordan.  \n    Section\n    1004\n     - \n    \n    Places conditions on the availability of assistance for Afghanistan to support the work of the Independent Electoral Commission and the Electoral Complaints Commission. Authorizes the Secretary of State to award task orders for a limited term for police training in Afghanistan under current Department of State contracts. (Sec, 1005) Makes funds available for human rights programs in Pakistan.  \n    Section\n    1006\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the transfer of specified funds for Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq for activities related to security for civilian led operations in those countries.  \n    Section\n    1007\n     - \n    \n    Places conditions on the availability of assistance to Haiti.  \n    Section\n    1008\n     - \n    \n    Appropriates supplemental funds for FY2010, authorizes the use of previously appropriated funds, and authorizes specified appropriations to provide for, and authorizes the U.S. Governor of the Inter-American Development Bank to vote for, specified debt relief for Haiti.  \n    Section\n    1010\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds for Mexico for International Narcotics Control and Law Enforcement available only after the Secretary of State submits a report to the Appropriations Committees detailing a coordinated, multiyear, interagency strategy to address the causes of drug-related violence and other organized criminal activity in Central and South America, Mexico, and the Caribbean.  \n    Section\n    1011\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available for emergency relief and reconstruction for El Salvador related to Hurricane/ Tropical Storm Ida.  \n    Section\n    1012\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available for emergency security and humanitarian assistance for civilians, particularly women and girls, in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.  \n    Section\n    1013\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the use of specified funds in prior Acts making appropriations for the Department of State, foreign operations, and related programs that are available for science and technology centers in the former Soviet Union to support productive, nonmilitary projects that engage scientists and engineers who have no weapons background and whose competence could otherwise be applied to weapons development, provided such projects are executed through existing science and technology centers.  \n    Section\n    1017\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available for reconstruction oversight in Afghanistan. Chapter 11: Department of Transportation - Makes specified amounts provided for Safety Belt Performance Grants available to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) for designated traffic and highway safety functions and makes corresponding rescissions. Rescinds specified amounts made available for the Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save Program. Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for the Community Development Fund for disaster relief, long-term recovery, and restoration of infrastructure, housing, and economic revitalization in areas affected by severe storms and flooding from March through May of 2010 for which the President declared a major disaster. Title II - Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to the Department of Commerce for Economic Development Assistance Programs to carry out planning, technical, and other assistance in states affected by the incidents related to the discharge of oil in connection with the explosion on, and sinking of, the mobile offshore drilling unit Deepwater Horizon. Makes funds available to NOAA for Operations, Research, and Facilities to respond to economic impacts on fishermen and fishery-dependent businesses once the Secretary of Commerce determines that resources provided, including by the responsible parties under the Oil Pollution Act, are insufficient to respond to such impacts following an incident related to a spill of national significance. Makes funds available for scientific investigations and sampling as a result of the incidents related to the discharge of oil and use of oil dispersants that began in 2010 in connection with the Deepwater Horizon. Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to: (1) HHS for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for food safety monitoring and response activities in connection with that oil spill; (2) the Department of the Interior for increased inspections and other activities related to emergency offshore oil spill incidents in the Gulf of Mexico; (3) the Department of Justice (DOJ) for litigation expenses resulting from incidents related to the oil discharge in connection with the Deepwater Horizon; and (4) the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for Science and Technology for a study of potential human and environmental risks and impacts of the release of crude oil and application of dispersants and other mitigation measures.  \n    Section\n    2001\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to authorize advances from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, subject to specified limitations and reporting requirements.  \n    Section\n    2002\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available by this Act to levy a fine or hold any person liable for construction or renovation work performed in any state under the final rules entitled \"Lead; Renovation, Repair, and Painting Program; Lead Hazard Information Pamphlet; Notice of Availability; Final Rule\" and \"Lead; Amendment to the Optout and Recordkeeping Provisions in the Renovation, Repair, and Painting Program.\"  \n    Section\n    2004\n     - \n    \n    Appropriates supplemental FY2010 funds to: (1) NOAA to provide fisheries disaster relief related to the Deepwater Horizon oil discharge and to conduct an expanded stock assessment of the fisheries of the Gulf of Mexico; and (2) the Department of Commerce for the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of the long-term ecosystem service impacts of that discharge. Makes corresponding rescissions of NOAA funds.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions--This Act\n    \n    Section\n    3001\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits any appropriation in this Act from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided.  \n    Section\n    3002\n     - \n    \n    Designates amounts in this Act as emergency requirements.  \n    Section\n    3003\n     - \n    \n    Requires, for FY2010 only, that all funds received from sales, bonuses, royalties, and rentals under the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970 be deposited in the Treasury. Requires: (1) the Secretary of the Treasury to use 50% and 25% of such receipts, respectively, to make payments to the states and counties within which the leased land and geothermal resources are located; and (2) 25% of such receipts to be deposited in miscellaneous receipts.  \n    Section\n    3004\n     - \n    \n    Amends Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 to reduce the amounts authorized for the Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians and for historical accounting.  \n    Section\n    3005\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Chesapeake Bay Initiative Act of 1998 to extend the authorization of appropriations for three years.  \n    Section\n    3006\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the National Park Service Recreation Fee Program account to be available in FY2010 and FY2011 for the cost of adjustments and changes within the original scope of contracts for National Park Service projects funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and for associated administrative costs when no funds are otherwise available for such purposes.  \n    Section\n    3007\n     - \n    \n    Terminates authority provided with respect to the sale of public land under the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act to 11 years (currently, 10 years) after its enactment.  \n    Section\n    3008\n     - \n    \n    Makes sums appropriated for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program under the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (Byrne Program) available, at the Attorney General's discretion, for assistance for individuals transitioning from prison in Genesee County, Michigan.  \n    Section\n    3009\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2010 to require the Amtrak security evaluation and checked firearms program to require: (1) inspections of any container containing a firearm or ammunition; and (2) the temporary suspension of firearm carriage service if credible intelligence information indicates a threat related to the national rail system or specific routes or trains.  \n    Section\n    3010\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Clean Contracting Act of 2008 to require the Administrator of General Services to post contractor performance information, excluding past performance reviews, on a publicly available Internet website.  \n    Section\n    3011\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director of National Intelligence, in coordination with the participants of the interagency review of Guantanamo Bay detainees, to fully inform the congressional intelligence committees concerning the basis for the disposition decisions reached by the Guantanamo Review Task Force. Requires the Director to provide those committees: (1) the written threat analyses prepared on each detainee by the Task Force; (2) access to the intelligence information that formed the basis of any such specific assessments or threat analyses; (3) any new threat assessment prepared by the intelligence community of a Guantanamo Bay detainee who remains in detention or is pending release or transfer; and (4) access to the information that formed the basis of such threat assessment.  \n    Section\n    3012\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Attorney General to make available to the Georgia State University Center for Healthy Development amounts appropriated for the Byrne Program to be made available to the Marcus Institute, Atlanta, Georgia, to provide remediation for the potential consequences of childhood abuse and neglect.  \n    Section\n    3013\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to authorize the immediate disbursement of funds in response to a spill of national significance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, at the request of a producing state or coastal political subdivision, for certain projects specifically designed to respond to the spill."