"6/14/2002--Passed Senate amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Suppression of Terrorist Bombings\n    Terrorist Bombings Convention Implementation Act of 2002 - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit unlawfully detonating an explosive in or against a place of public use, a state or government facility, a public transportation system, or an infrastructure facility, with intent to cause: (1) death or serious bodily injury; or (2) extensive destruction of such place where such destruction results in or is likely to result in major economic loss. Criminalizes conspiracy and attempts to commit such crimes. Sets penalties for violations. Delineates the jurisdictional bases for the covered offenses. Exempts from jurisdiction: (1) the activities of armed forces during an armed conflict, as those terms are understood under the law of war, which are governed by that law; (2) activities undertaken by military forces of a state in the exercise of their official duties; or (3) offenses committed within the United States, where the alleged offender and the victims are U.S. citizens and the alleged offender is found in the United States, or where jurisdiction is predicated solely on the nationality of the victims or the alleged offender and the offense has no substantial effect on interstate or foreign commerce.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism\n    Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism Convention Implementation Act of 2002 - Amends the code to prohibit, unlawfully and willfully providing or collecting funds, directly or indirectly, with the intention that such funds be used, or with the knowledge that such funds are to be used, in full or in part, to carry out: (1) an act which constitutes an offense within the scope of specified listed terrorism treaties; or (2) any other act intended to cause death or serious bodily injury to a civilian or to specified others when the purpose of such act, by its nature or context, is to intimidate a population, or to compel a government or an international organization to do or abstain from doing any act. Criminalizes conspiracy and attempts to commit such crimes. Prohibits knowingly concealing or disguising the nature, location, source, ownership, or control of material support or resources to terrorists, or of any funds provided or collected or any proceeds of such funds. Delineates the jurisdictional bases for the covered offenses and includes jurisdiction over perpetrators of offenses abroad who are subsequently found within the United States. Sets penalties for violations. Creates a civil penalty of at least $10,000 payable to the United States, against any legal entity in the United States, or organized under U.S. law, including any of its states, districts, commonwealths, territories, or possessions, if any person responsible for the management or control of that legal entity has, in that capacity, committed a specified offense.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Ancillary Measures\n    Makes provisions of this Act predicates under the wiretap statute, and under code provisions relating to the provision of material support to terrorists and relating to the forfeiture of funds, proceeds, and instrumentalities. Adds offenses under this Act to those defined as a \"Federal crime of terrorism\" under the code."