"3/21/2010--Passed House without amendment. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary has been expanded because action occurred on the measure.) Sets forth the rule for consideration of the Senate amendments to the bill (H.R. 3590) to amend the Internal Revenue Code to modify the first-time homebuyers credit in the case of members of the Armed Forces and certain other federal employees, and for other purposes, and providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4872) to provide for reconciliation pursuant to section 202 of the concurrent resolution on the budget for FY2010. Makes it in order to consider a single motion offered by the Majority Leader or a designee that the House concur in the Senate amendments to H.R. 3590 without intervention of any point of order except those arising under clause 10 of Rule XXI. Provides, upon adoption of the motion to concur in the Senate amendments, for a closed rule for consideration of H.R. 4872. Waives all points of order against consideration of H.R. 4872 except those arising under clause 10 of Rule XXI. Provides that the amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part A of the Rules Committee report accompanying this resolution, modified by the amendment printed in part B of the report, shall be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. Waives all points of order against H.R. 4872, as amended. Provides one motion to recommit the bill with or without instructions. Provides that until completion of the proceedings described above: (1) the Chair may decline to entertain any intervening motion, resolution, question, or notice, decline to entertain the question of consideration, and may postpone proceedings to a time designated by the Speaker; (2) the second sentence of clause 1(a) of Rule XIX (regarding 40 minutes of debate on questions not debated) shall not apply; and (3) any proposition admissible under the proceedings described in this resolution shall be considered as read."