"9/26/1994--Passed House amended. Increases the authorization of appropriations for the Secretary of the Interior to make available to the Lowell Historic Preservation Commission to carry out activities relating to the Lowell National Historical Park and the Lowell Historic Preservation District in Massachusetts. Requires the Secretary, acting through the National Park Service, to assume all responsibilities for administration and oversight of the loan and grant agreements between the Commission and the Lowell Development and Financial Corporation upon termination of the Commission. Authorizes the Secretary to negotiate and enter into leases, with any person, firm, association, organization, corporation, or governmental entity for the use of any property within the Park and Preservation District in accordance with the General Management Plan for the Park. Requires the Secretary to retain and use the surplus proceeds from leases entered into under the National Historic Preservation Act and proceeds from leases entered into under this Act to offset the costs of preservation, interpretation, restoration, maintenance, improvement, repair, and related expenses incurred by the Secretary concerning properties within the Park and Preservation District. Requires the Secretary to report annually to the Congress on property leased under this Act. Extends the Lowell Historic Preservation Commission until the year 2000. Revises provisions of the terms for loan agreements between the Commission and the Corporation. Authorizes the Commission to renegotiate the terms and conditions respecting loan repayment of the agreement dated December 8, 1980, with the Corporation. Makes such authority available only to the extent that appropriations for a subsidy cost, as defined in specified provisions of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, are made in advance. Directs the Secretary, upon the termination of the Commission, to establish the Lowell National Historical Park Advisory Committee to advise on the operation, maintenance, development, and programming of the Park and Preservation District. Requires the Comptroller General to audit and report to the Congress on the activities and expenditures authorized by this Act. Expresses the sense of the Congress that only American-made equipment and products should be purchased with funds made available pursuant to this Act. Requires the Commission to notify entities receiving financial assistance or contracts under this Act of this congressional statement."