"5/26/1993--Passed House amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations Title II: Rescissions Title III: General Provisions Second Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1993\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations\n    Makes supplemental appropriations available to: (1) the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor; (2) the Environmental Protection Agency for construction grants; (3) the Farmers Home Administration of the Department of Agriculture; (4) the Office of Justice Programs of the Department of Justice; (5) the Federal Railroad Administration of the Department of Transportation; and (6) the Small Business Administration through a fund transfer.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Rescissions\n    Rescinds specified appropriations made to: (1) the Department of Agriculture for the Farmers Home Administration; (2) the Department of Commerce for the Economic Development Administration and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (3) the Department of Justice for Office of Justice Programs and the Thomas Jefferson Commemoration Commission; (4) the Department of the Interior for the Bureau of Land Management, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the National Park Service, and the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation; (5) the Department of Labor for the Employment and Training Administration and departmental management; (6) the Department of Education for certain programs; (7) the Department of Transportation for the Coast Guard, the Federal Aviation Administration, and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; (8) the Department of the Treasury for the U.S. Customs Administration, the Bureau of the Public Debt, and the Internal Revenue Service; (9) the General Services Administration for the Federal Buildings Fund; (10) the Department of Veterans Affairs for departmental administration; (11) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for certain housing programs; (12) the Environmental Protection Agency for the Hazardous Substance Superfund; and (13) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for research and development.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits appropriations in this Act from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided. Restricts the availability of funds for the Community Investment Program until September 30, 1993. Prohibits the use of any funds to pay for the relocation of the Human Nutrition Information Service. Amends the Job Training Partnership Act to change the age eligibility requirements for the Youth Fair Chance Program. Allows the provision of stipends to youth in such program. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1993 through 1997."