"10/27/1993--House receded and concurred with amendment. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1994 Appropriations Title II: Fiscal Year 1993 Supplemental District of Columbia Funds Title I: Fiscal Year 1994 Appropriations\n    District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1994 - Appropriates funds for the District of Columbia for FY 1994 for: (1) the Federal payment to the District of Columbia; (2) the Federal contribution to retirement funds; and (3) the Federal contribution for crime and youth initiatives. Appropriates specified sums out of the District of Columbia general fund for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (8) repayments of specified Federal loans and interest; (9) repayment of the general fund deficit as of September 30, 1990; (10) employees' optical and dental benefits; (11) employees' pay adjustments; (12) severance pay; (13) the D.C. General Hospital deficit payments; (14) the Cash Reserve Fund; (15) capital outlays; (16) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund and water construction projects; (17) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; (18) the Cable Television Enterprise Fund; and (19) the Starplex Fund. Requires the District of Columbia Mayor to reduce appropriations and expenditures for adjustments for energy, communications, and contractual services by a specified amount. Sets forth certain uses of and restrictions on the expenditure of appropriations made by this Act. Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1995 be transmitted to the Congress by April 15, 1994. Directs the Mayor to submit to the D.C. Council, within 30 days after the end of the first quarter of FY 1994, the FY 1994 revenue estimates. Prohibits the number of FTEs (Full Time Equivalents) at the end of FY 1994 from exceeding such number approved in the FY 1994 budget less a one percent attrition rate and the actual corresponding dollar savings. Requires the Mayor to: (1) establish a program to offer incentives for employees to accept early-out retirement; and (2) report to the D.C. Council for approval of such program by mid-FY 1994 with an actuarial study to show the District's liability for the program. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated in this Act to enforce or implement: (1) any registration system for unmarried, cohabitating couples that are homosexual, lesbian, or heterosexual, including registration for the extension of employment, health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the same basis as that such benefits are extended to legally married couples; or (2) the District Domestic Partner Act (also called the District of Columbia Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992). Requires the Mayor to report to the Congress on the construction status of a new Federal prison in the District of Columbia. Makes permanent, as of October 1, 1993, provisions of Federal law establishing the District of Columbia as the legal domicile of the Group Hospitalization and Medical Services, Inc. (Blue Cross and Blue Shield). (Currently, such mandate terminates on September 30, 1993, or upon enactment of specific authorizing legislation.) Amends the District of Columbia Omnibus Budget Support Act of 1992 to repeal amendments to the District of Columbia Retirement Reform Act of 1976 and restores the original language as of September 10, 1992. Amends the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act of 1973 to allow the District government to pay overtime to its employees in accordance with the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. Establishes a Cash Reserve Fund to replenish the consolidated cash balances of the District of Columbia. Prohibits funds appropriated under this Act from being expended for any abortion unless it is necessary to save the life of the mother or if the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1993 Supplemental District of Columbia Funds\n    District of Columbia Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions Act, 1993 - Makes supplemental appropriations (including rescissions) to the District of Columbia for FY 1993 for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) human support services; (6) repayment of loans and interest; (7) resizing costs of the Temporary Appeals Panel; (8) severance pay; (9) employee pay adjustments; (10) capital outlay; (11) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund; (12) the Cable Television Enterprise Fund; and (13) public works. Rescinds specified FY 1993 funds earmarked for repayment of the general fund recovery debt and the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund. Repeals provisions of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1993 that: (1) prohibit the use of funds to perform abortions except where the life of a mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term; and (2) require the Mayor to reduce appropriations and expenditures for personal and nonpersonal services. Requires the amount of reductions previously mandated to be distributed within other appropriations. Repeals provisions appropriating FY 1993 funds for the rental and leasing of facilities for governmental purposes. Requires each agency, office, and instrumentality of the District, except the District of Columbia courts, to furlough each of its employees for one day in each month of FY 1993. Prohibits any District employee from receiving within-grade salary increases during FY 1993 or accruing time toward the waiting period for advancement to the following within-grade rate. Requires the resulting savings to be distributed within other appropriations. Amends the Act to: (1) authorize the D.C. Council to accept and use gifts without prior approval by the Mayor; and (2) transfer a specified sum out of funds appropriated for the Starplex Fund to the University of the District of Columbia."