"6/30/1993--Conference report filed in House. Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1993 - Makes emergency supplemental appropriations for FY 1993. Makes additional appropriations available to the Department of Agriculture for the Food Safety and Inspection Service, the Soil Conservation Service, the Rural Development Administration and the Farmers Home Administration. Rescinds certain amounts available to the Rural Development Administration, the Farmers Home Administration, and the Human Nutrition Information Service. Provides for the use of Commodity Credit Corporations funds for certain losses of crop production in 1993. Allows the transfer of funds from specified accounts for agricultural natural disaster assistance. Makes additional funds available to: (1) the Department of Health and Human Services for the Food and Drug Administration; (2) the Department of Commerce for minority business development; (3) the Department of Justice for the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Office of Justice Programs; (4) the Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and Other Judicial Services; (5) the Department of Transportation; (6) the Federal Communications Commission; (7) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; and (8) the Small Business Administration for the business loans program account. Rescinds certain amounts appropriated to: (1) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (2) the Department of Justice; (3) the Thomas Jefferson Commemoration Commission; (4) the Small Business Administration; (5) the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (6) the Board for International Broadcasting. Makes supplemental amounts available to the Department of Defense for military personnel, operation and maintenance, the Defense Business Operations Fund, the Defense Health Program, and the Humanitarian Assistance Program. Specifies rescissions from appropriations for the Department of Defense. Appropriates funds out of the National Security Education Trust Fund for scholarships, fellowships, and grants. Makes additional amounts available for defense reinvestment for economic growth for projects that arise out of the closure or realignment of the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard and Naval Base Complex. Makes additional appropriations available to the Department of the Interior for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Requires the United States Fish and Wildlife Service to use available funds for a grant to Ducks Unlimited, Inc., for a construction project in the Ottawa National Wildlife Refuge, Ohio. Rescinds certain amounts available to the National Park Service and the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation. Makes additional funds available to the Department of Labor for the Employment and Training Administration. Makes additional funds available to the Department of Health and Human Services for the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Assistant Secretary for Health, and the Social Security Administration. Makes additional funds available for the Department of Education for student financial assistance. Rescinds certain funds appropriated to the Community Investment Program. Makes additional amounts available for military construction of the Department of Defense. Reorganizes the Office of the Secretary of the Department of Transportation and makes certain fund transfers and recissions. Rescinds certain appropriations of the Interstate Commerce Commission. Makes additional amounts available to the Department of the Treasury. Rescinds certain funds for administering the public debt and for certain Internal Revenue processes. Makes additional amounts available to the Executive Office of the President. Rescinds amounts made available to the National Critical Materials Council and the National Space Council. Makes additional amounts available to the Federal Election Commission. Reduces amounts available to the General Services Administration for the Federal Buildings Fund. Provides additional amounts to the National Archives and Records Administration and the General Services Administration for allowances and office staff of former Presidents. Makes additional amounts available to the Department of Veterans Affairs for veterans benefits and the Department of Housing and Urban Development for certain housing programs. Makes additional amounts available by fund transfer to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Directs the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to undertake work on the Cliff Walk, Rhode Island, project. Authorizes the Architect of the Capitol to acquire additional property as an addition to the Capitol Grounds. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993 to require the Secretary of the Senate to pay from the contingent fund the employer share of old age, survivors, and disability insurance taxes for Senate day care center employees. Amends the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 (of the Civil Rights Act of 1991) to allow grievants to petition for review by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit of final decisions of the Select Committee on Ethics. Establishes a settlements and awards reserve account in the contingent fund of the Senate."