"10/13/1993--House receded and concurred with amendment. Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1994 - Appropriates funds for FY 1994 for military construction functions administered by the Department of Defense (DOD) in specified amounts for: (1) military construction for the Army, Navy, Air Force, DOD (including a transfer of funds), Army and Air National Guards, and Army, Navy, and Air Force Reserves; (2) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Infrastructure; (3) family housing for the Army, Navy, Marine Corps and Air Force, and DOD; (4) the homeowners assistance fund, defense; and (5) the Base Realignment and Closure Accounts, Parts I through III. Rescinds certain military construction and family housing funds. Specifies prohibited uses of funds appropriated through this Act. Conditions the availability of certain funds for overseas military basing activities on negotiations to provide for the assumption by host nations of greater costs of U.S. military installations. Directs the Secretary of Defense to provide certain congressional notification 30 days in advance of the plans and scope of any proposed military exercise involving U.S. personnel for which construction amounts are expected to exceed $100,000. Provides for the transfer of certain funds from the Military Family Housing Management Account to the appropriations for family housing. Provides for the transfer of lapsed unobligated military construction and family housing funds into the Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Construction, Defense account. Directs the Secretary to report to the Congress on actions proposed by DOD to encourage other member nations of NATO, Japan, and Korea to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United States. Directs the Secretary of the Army to transfer to the Architect of the Capitol specified real property of Fort George G. Meade, Maryland, to be used to provide facilities for varied long-term storage and service needs of the Library of Congress and other legislative branch agencies. Authorizes appropriations. Requires compliance with Buy American Act provisions for expenditures of appropriations in this Act. Expresses the sense of the Congress that entities receiving financial assistance provided under this Act should purchase only American-made equipment and products with such assistance. Provides that if a court or Federal agency determines that a person has intentionally affixed a \"Made in America\" label to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that was not made in America, such person shall be ineligible to receive any contract or subcontract made with funds provided under this Act."