"2/11/1994--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Title II: Supplemental Appropriations for the Fiscal Year Ending September 11, 1994 Title III: Rescinding Certain Budget Authority Title IV: General Provisions Title I: Emergency Supplemental Appropriations\n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1994 - Makes additional appropriations available to the Department of Agriculture for the Soil Conservation Service and the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service for repair damage to the waterways and watersheds resulting from the Midwest floods and California fires of 1993 and other natural disasters. Directs the Commodity Credit Corporation to use available funds to replant, reseed, or repair damage to commercial trees and seedlings. Authorizes the Corporation to provide relief for losses of papaya crops and for losses of trees, shrubs, or nursery stock in 1993, 1994, or 1995. Makes emergency supplemental appropriations for FY 1994 for disaster assistance activities resulting from the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California and other disasters. Makes additional funds available to: (1) the Small Business Administration for the disaster loans program account; (2) the Department of Defense for military personnel, operation and maintenance, and procurement; and (3) the Army Corps of Engineers-Civil for flood control and coastal emergencies. Amends the Small Business Act to require that priority be given to contract proposals to restore State or Federal lands in presidentially-declared major disaster areas. Authorizes the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services to allot specified funds to States to meet emergency needs. Makes supplemental amounts available to: (1) the Department of Education for impact aid and student financial assistance; (2) the Department of Transportation for the Federal Highway Administration; (3) the Department of Veterans Affairs for medical care and construction projects; (4) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for housing programs and community development; (5) the Federal Emergency Management Agency for disaster relief, and (6) the President for unanticipated needs.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations for the Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 1994\n    Makes supplemental appropriations for FY 1994 to: (1) the Department of Agriculture for the Extension Service, including transfers of funds; (2) the Department of Health and Human Services for the Food and Drug Administration; and (3) the Department of Justice for the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to use specified funds to relocate, repair, and lay up the nuclear ship SAVANNAH. Makes supplemental appropriations for FY 1994 to: (1) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; (2) the United States Information Agency; (3) the Department of the Interior for the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (including a transfer of funds), the National Park Service, and the Bureau of Indian Affairs; (4) the Department of Labor for the Employment and Training Administration and the Bureau of Labor Statistics; (5) the Senate for salaries and contingent expenses; and (6) the House of Representatives for a payment to the widow of a deceased Member. Requires a transfer of funds within the Department of Transportation for the Coast Guard for costs associated with the Midwest floods. Makes grant funds available to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation for engineering and design activities to enable the James A. Farley Post Office in New York City to be used as a train station and commercial center. Makes additional funds available to the Highway Trust Fund for high-speed ground transportation. Makes additional funds available to the Executive Office of the President for electronic communications records management activities. Appropriates additional funds to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Increases guaranteed loan limitations for housing programs of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Delays the availability of amounts for State revolving funds administered by the Environmental Protection Agency. Repeals a provision of Public Law 103-124 which requires the Office of Science and Technology Policy in the Executive Office of the President to reimburse other agencies for at least one-half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals detailed to it. Makes additional funds available to the Council on Environmental Quality and Office on Environmental Quality and to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for research and development.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Rescinding Certain Budget Authority\n    Rescinds funds made available to the Department of Agriculture for the Cooperative State Research Service, the Soil Conservation Service, the Farmers Home Administration, the Rural Electrification Administration, and the Food and Nutrition Service. Rescinds specified foreign assistance funds available for ocean freight differential, commodity grants, and loan subsidies. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of Commerce for (1) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (2) the International Trade Administration; (3) the Minority Business Development Agency; and (4) the Economic Development Administration. Rescinds funds made available to: (1) the Department of State for the Administration of Foreign Affairs; (2) judicial defender services; (3) the Board for International Broadcasting; (4) the Small Business Administration; and (5) the United States Information Agency. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of Defense for military procurement and research, development, test and evaluation. Rescinds funds made available to: (1) the Department of the Army for Civil projects of the Corps of Engineers; (2) the Bureau of Reclamation of the Department of the Interior; (3) the Department of Energy; and (4) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Rescinds certain funds appropriated to the President for specified international financial institutions, bilateral economic assistance, and the foreign military financing program. Rescinds funds made available to: (1) the Department of the Interior for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; and (2) the Department of the Treasury for biomass energy development. Rescinds funds appropriated to the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Social Security Administration, and the Department of Education. Rescinds funds appropriated to the Senate, the House of Representatives, the Architect of the Capitol, the Library of Congress, and the General Accounting Office. Rescinds funds appropriated to the Department of Defense for military construction. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of Transportation for small community air service and rental payments, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Federal Highway Administration, the Federal Railroad Administration, and the Federal Transit Administration. Rescinds funds made available to the Internal Revenue Service for information systems. Rescinds funds made available to the General Services Administration for the Federal Buildings Fund. Rescinds funds made available for: (1) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for certain housing programs; (2) the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; (3) the Environmental Protection Agency; (4) the Federal Emergency Management Agency; (5) NASA; (6) the National Science Foundation; and (7) the National Service Initiative.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Grants the Architect of the Capitol the authority given to heads of agencies under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 regarding contracting with energy services companies. \n    Section\n    403\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits benefits under this Act from being made available to individuals not lawfully within the United States.  \n    Section\n    404\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Comptroller General to report to the Congress on a study regarding Federal laws, unfunded Federal mandates, and other Federal regulatory requirements that may prevent or impair the ability of States and local authorities to rebuild expeditiously the areas devastated by the January 1994 earthquake in Southern California.  \n    Section\n    405\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of the Congress that entities receiving assistance under this Act should, in expending such assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products.  \n    Section\n    406\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to extend the Resolution Trust Corporation civil statute of limitations.  \n    Section\n    408\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Department of Defense should proceed with construction of a new facility for the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research at Forest Glen, Maryland.  \n    Section\n    409\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration to establish and operate an Auxiliary Flight Service Station at Marquette, Michigan, using available funds.  \n    Section\n    411\n     - \n    \n    Permits the Secretary of Defense to transfer funds to NASA to be used only for the Landsat 7 program, if NASA certifies a plan that fully funds such program for FY 1995 and beyond."