"9/28/1994--Passed House amended. State and Local Government Interstate Waste Control Act of 1994 - Amends the Solid Waste Disposal Act to prohibit a landfill or incinerator from receiving out-of-State municipal solid waste for disposal or incineration unless the owner or operator of the landfill or incinerator obtains authorization (as part of a host community agreement) from the affected local government to receive such waste. Requires owners or operators to make specified information regarding the facility available prior to seeking such authorization. Permits landfills or incinerators to receive out-of-State municipal solid waste in the absence of an authorization if: (1) the owner or operator provides information that establishes that the owner or operator has entered into a host community agreement or received a State permit authorizing the acceptance of out-of-State waste or that during 1993, the landfill or incinerator received shipments of out-of-State waste; and (2) the landfill or incinerator is in compliance with Federal and State environmental laws. Applies such authorizations for limited time periods for facilities that received such waste during 1993 and establishes deadlines for the continued receipt of such waste. Prohibits landfills or incinerators from receiving out-of-State waste for disposal or incineration in the absence of a host community agreement if the operating permit or license for the facility was denied or revoked. Permits the receipt of such waste without an authorization if the waste is generated within, and the landfill or incinerator is located within, the same bi-State level A metropolitan statistical area which contains two contiguous major cities located in different States. Authorizes States to limit the amount of such waste received annually by each landfill or incinerator except that no such limit may conflict with: (1) provisions of a permit authorizing an owner or operator to accept such waste; or (2) a host community agreement entered into between the owner or operator and the affected local government. Treats such limits as conflicting with a permit or agreement if the permit or agreement establishes a higher limit or does not establish any limit. Establishes specified limits on the receipt of out-of-State waste. Provides that limitations, planning and permitting processes, and State laws and regulations shall not be considered to impose an undue burden on interstate commerce. Authorizes States to impose cost recovery surcharges on the combustion or disposal of out-of-State waste, subject to certain conditions."