"5/5/1994--Passed House amended. Public Safety and Recreational Firearms Use Protection Act - Amends the Federal criminal code to prohibit the manufacture, transfer, or possession of a semiautomatic assault weapon (SAW) as defined or listed under this Act. Sets penalties for violations and for use or possession of such a weapon during a crime of violence or drug trafficking crime. Requires the serial number of any such weapon manufactured after enactment of this Act to clearly show the date on which the weapon was manufactured. Makes such provisions inapplicable to: (1) the transfer or possession of any SAW lawfully possessed on the date of this Act's enactment; (2) certain hunting and sporting firearms; (3) the United States or a department or agency of the United States, or a State or department, agency, or political subdivision of a State; (4) the transfer of a SAW by a licensed manufacturer, importer, or dealer to a government entity or to a law enforcement officer authorized to purchase firearms for official use; (5) the possession, by an individual who is retired from service with a law enforcement agency and who is not otherwise prohibited from receiving a firearm, of a SAW transferred to the individual by the agency upon such retirement; and (6) the manufacture, transfer, or possession of a firearm by a licensed manufacturer or importer for purposes of testing or experimentation authorized by the Secretary of the Treasury. Prohibits the sale, shipment, or delivery of a SAW to, or the receipt of a SAW by, a person who has not completed a form 4473 (prescribed by the Secretary) in connection with the transfer of the SAW. Specifies that, if a person receives a SAW from anyone other than a licensed dealer, both the person and the transferor shall retain a copy of the form. Sets penalties for violations. Prohibits the transfer or possession of a large capacity ammunition feeding device, with exceptions. Treats such devices as firearms. Sets penalties for violations. Requires any such device manufactured after the date of this Act's enactment to be identified by a serial number that clearly shows that the device was manufactured or imported after the effective date of this Act. Directs the Attorney General to: (1) investigate and study the effect of this Act and determine its impact, if any, on violent and drug trafficking crime; and (2) report to the Congress. Itemizes firearms under various categories as an appendix to Federal firearms provisions."