"9/28/1994--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Amendments to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 Title II: Amendments to the General Education Provisions Act Part A: Applicability of the General Education Provisions Act Part B: The Department of Education Part C: Appropriations and Evaluations Part D: Administration of Education Programs Part E: Technical and Conforming Amendments Part F: Related Amendments to Other Acts Title III: Amendments to Other Acts Part A: Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act Part B: Education for Homeless Children and Youth Part C: Repeal of Impact Aid Statutes Part D: Amendments to Adult Education Act Part E: Higher Education Part F: Other Acts Part G: Library Services and Construction Reauthorization Part H: Amendments to Statutes Pertaining to Indian Education Part I: Cross References and Conforming Amendments Title IV: National Education Statistics Title V: Miscellaneous Provisions Part A: Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Act Part B: Community School Partnerships Part C: 1994 Institutions Part D: Workers Technology Skill Development Part E: Multiethnic Placement Part F: Miscellaneous Improving America's Schools Act of 1994\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Amendments to the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965\n    Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to revise and reauthorize ESEA. \n    Section\n    101\n     - \n    \n    Establishes a title I program for Helping Disadvantaged Children Meet High Standards, which revises and reauthorizes some of the current title I chapter 1 programs of Financial Assistance to Meet the Special Educational Needs of Children. Declares it to be U.S. policy: (1) that a high-quality education for all individuals and a fair and equal opportunity to attain it are a societal good and moral imperative; and (2) to expand the title I program over FY 1996 through 1999 by increasing funding by a specified minimum amount each fiscal year and increasing the percentage of eligible children served, with the intent of serving them all by FY 2004. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) local educational agency (LEA) grants under the basic program; (2) Even Start; (3) education of migratory children; (4) prevention and intervention programs for youth who are neglected, delinquent, or at risk of dropping out; (5) capital expenses; (6) additional assistance for school improvement; and (7) Federal activities. Allows States to reserve certain funds to carry out specified school improvement duties. Provides for additional State allocations for school improvement. Requires any State desiring to receive a grant (under provisions for improving basic educational programs operated by LEAs) to submit State plans that are coordinated with other programs under ESEA, the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, and other Acts, as appropriate. Requires each State plan to describe challenging standards for all children that will be used by the State, its LEAs, and its schools to carry out this Act, including: (1) challenging academic content standards; and (2) challenging student performance standards. Sets forth assessment provisions and other teaching and learning support provisions. Directs the Secretary of Education to establish a process for peer review and Secretarial approval. Requires LEAs receiving subgrants to have plans with standards and assessments provisions and other teaching and learning support provisions. Provides for State approval and shared program responsibility of schools and the LEA in deciding on schoolwide programs and targeted assistance schools. Allows an LEA to only use basic program funds in eligible school attendance areas in which the percentage of children from low-income families is at least as high as that in the LEA as a whole. Sets forth formulas for ranking eligible school attendance areas for purposes of such funding in various cases where there are insufficient funds. Provides for LEA discretion in eligibility determinations and use of funds under certain conditions. Sets forth criteria which a school must meet in order for the LEA to use basic program funds to upgrade the entire educational program at an eligible school (schoolwide programs). Provides that, in participating schools that are ineligible for a schoolwide program or that choose not to operate a schoolwide program, an LEA may use basic program funds only for targeted assistance programs that provide services to eligible children identified as having the greatest need for special assistance (targeted assistance schools). Sets forth criteria for eligible children at such schools. Allows title I basic grant funds to be used for school choice programs which permit parents of eligible children to select the public school their children will attend. Provides for assessment and LEA and school improvement, including local review, designation of Distinguished Schools, school improvement identification, and State review and LEA improvement. Requires each State educational agency (SEA) to establish a statewide system of intensive and sustained support and improvement for schools receiving basic program funds. Requires such system to work with and receive support and assistance from the comprehensive regional technical assistance centers. Requires such system to include school support teams, Distinguished Schools, and State establishment of a corps of Distinguished Educators. Sets forth requirements for: (1) parental involvement; (including coordination with other programs, such as Head Start, Even Start, Parents As Teachers, Home Instruction for Preschool Youngsters, and State-run preschool programs); (2) professional development; (3) participation of children enrolled in private schools; and fiscal and coordination requirements. Revises formulas for allocations of title I basic program funds. Targets the greater share of increased appropriations on high poverty areas. Sets forth hold-harmless provisions. Provides for allocations to States, basic grants to LEAs, concentration grants to LEAs, targeted grants to LEAs, and special allocation procedures, including ones for neglected children. Sets forth carryover and waiver provisions. Establishes an education finance incentive program. Authorizes the Secretary to make such program grants to States for allocation to LEAs and schools. Authorizes appropriations. Revises Even Start Family Literacy Programs to increase program services and high-poverty-area targeting and include teenage parents. Revises Education of Migratory Children to restrict eligibility to children who have moved within the previous 36 months. Allows State consortium arrangements. Provides for continuation of services. Authorizes distance learning program grants in the education of migratory children. Renames Education of Neglected and Delinquent Youth as Prevention and Intervention for Children and Youth Who Are Neglected, Delinquent, or At-Risk of Dropping Out. Bases a part of the formula for subgrants to State agencies on the number of neglected or delinquent children who are enrolled for at least: (1) 15 hours per week in education programs in adult correctional institutions; or (2) 20 hours per week in education programs in institutions for such children or in community day programs for them. Adds provisions for youth in local correctional facilities. Sets forth title I provisions for Federal evaluations, demonstrations, and transition projects. Directs the Secretary to provide financial assistance for innovative transition projects in elementary schools. Establishes title I provisions for a negotiated rulemaking process, program assistance manual, and State committees of practitioners to advise States on title I responsibilities. Establishes a new ESEA title II, Dwight D. Eisenhower Professional Development Program, to support professional development of elementary and secondary school teachers in core academic subjects. (This replaces the current Dwight D. Eisenhower Mathematics and Science Education Act programs.) Gives priority for professional development in mathematics and science. Authorizes appropriations. Provides for Federal program activities in general, as well as for a mathematics and science education clearinghouse and a national teacher training project. Authorizes the Secretary to award a grant or contract to establish an Eisenhower National Clearinghouse for Mathematics and Science Education. National Teacher Training Project Act of 1994 - Authorizes the Secretary to award up to ten grants to ten different eligible recipients for half of the costs of supporting: (1) teacher training programs in early childhood development and one of nine specified core academic subjects; and (2) classroom research on effective teaching practices. Provides for State and local activities, with priority for professional development in mathematics and science. Directs the Secretary to award demonstration grants to eligible partnerships for planning and implementing professional development programs. Technology for Education Act of 1994 - Establishes a new ESEA title II, Technology for Education for All Students. (The current title III, Magnet Schools Assistance, is transferred to a new title IV.) Authorizes appropriations for programs under the following parts of title III. Sets forth title III part A provisions for Technology for Education of All Students. Includes under National Programs for Technology in Education: (1) Federal leadership activities by the Secretary and through the Office of Educational Technology, including a national long-range technology plan and assistance for State planning for use of technology in schools in accordance with the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, technical assistance, research and development, assessment, and collaboration, and study, evaluation and report on funding alternatives for schools; (2) school technology resource grants and national challenger grants for technology in education under State and Local Programs for School Technology Resources; (3) regional technical support and professional development grants; and (4) educational technology product development grants. Star Schools Act - Revises the Star Schools Program (currently under the Star Schools Program Assistance Act) and makes it part B of title III of ESEA. Extends the authorization of appropriations. Provides for leadership and evaluation activities and for other assistance to a special statewide and a special local network. Provides for grants for telecommunications programs for continuing education. Revises, and transfers to part C of title III (currently IV-G), the Ready-to-Learn Television program. Extends the authorization of appropriations. Establishes a new title II part D, Telecommunications Demonstration Project for Mathematics. Authorizes appropriations for project grants. Elementary Mathematics and Science Equipment Act - Establishes the Elementary Mathematics and Science Equipment Program as part E of title III of ESEA. Authorizes the Secretary to allot funds to State educational agencies to award grants to local educational agencies to provide hands-on instruction equipment and materials to elementary schools to improve mathematics and science education. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes the Elementary and Secondary School Library Media Resources Program as part F of title III of ESEA. Directs the Secretary to award grants or make allocations for acquisition of school library media resources for elementary and secondary schools. Reserves a portion of part A funds for such awards to States. Requires State plans and distribution of allocation to LEAs. Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1994 - Establishes as ESEA title IV a Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities program, which replaces and revises the current title V Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act program to include violence prevention activities and increase the role of community-based agencies and student organizations. Includes under the new program: (1) State Grants for Drug and Violence Prevention Programs at State and local levels, including reservation of funds for territorial, Indian, native Hawaiian, and evaluation programs; and (2) national programs, including grants for hate crime prevention and higher education institution grants. Reserves 20 percent of State assistance for Governor's programs. Requires the Governor to use ten percent of such reserved funds for drug abuse resistance education programs and establish an advisory panel to develop a plan for use of such reserved funds. Includes prevention of use of tobacco and alcohol under drug prevention. Establishes as ESEA title V, Promoting Equity, which authorizes appropriations for: (1) a revised Magnet Schools Assistance program; (2) a revised Women's Educational Equity Act program (currently under title IV part A), retaining the current grant program and adding implementation grants; and (3) assistance to address school dropout problems. Women's Educational Equity Act of 1994 - Sets forth (as noted above) a revised Women's Educational Equity program. School Dropout Assistance Act - Sets forth (as noted above) Assistance to Address School Dropout Problems. Provides for grants to LEAs and community organizations, with special consideration for LEAs forming educational partnerships with various other entities. Allows grants to be used for various educational, occupational, and basic skills testing services and activities. Establishes a new title VI, Innovative Education Program Strategies, which modifies the current title I chapter 2 program. Provides for support of educational reform activities consistent with State and local efforts under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. Authorizes use of such funds also to provide support for innovation and educational improvement. Authorizes appropriations for such program, including: (1) State and local programs; (2) State programs; and (3) local innovative education programs, including effective schools and magnet schools programs. Provides for participation of children enrolled in private schools. Sets forth ESEA title VII Bilingual Education, Language Enhancement, and Language Acquisiton Programs, with part A bilingual education programs, part B foreign language assistance, and part C Emergency Immigrant Education Program. Revises the Bilingual Education Act (currently all of ESEA title VII) to establish it as part A of title VII and to extend its authorization of appropriations. Authorizes appropriations for: (1) bilingual education capacity and demonstration grants, including ones for program development and implementation, program enhancement, comprehensive schoolwide programs, and system-wide improvement; (2) research, evaluation, and dissemination, including academic excellence awards, State grants, the National Clearinghouse for Bilingual Education, and instructional materials development; and (3) bilingual education professional development, including a training-all-teachers program, bilingual education teachers and personnel grants, a career ladder program, and graduate fellowships in bilingual education. Provides programs for Native Hawaiian and Native American Pacific Islander, as well as Native American and Alaska Native, children and youth. Limits the funding period for recipients of bilingual education grants awarded before the enactment of this Act. Foreign Language Assistance Act of 1994 - Revises the Foreign Language Assistance Program (currently under ESEA title II part B) to establish it as title VII part B and extend its authorization of appropriations. Provides for competitive, three-year grants to SEAs and LEAs for innovative model programs of foreign language study for elementary and secondary school students. Requires annual incentive payments to each public elementary school that provides students with a program designed to lead to communicative competency in a foreign language. Extends the authorization of appropriations for a revised Emergency Immigrant Education Program, under part C of title VII of ESEA. Establishes a new ESEA title VIII, Impact Aid. (The current impact aid laws are repealed later in this Act.) Revises formulas for payments to LEAs relating to Federal acquisition of real property. Revises payments to LEAs for eligible federally connected children by: (1) revising payments for children whose parents either live on Federal land or work for the Federal Government; (2) changing the payment formula for those children whose parents work for the Federal Government and live on Federal property, and those who live on Indian lands; (3) providing additional funding for very large LEAs with very high numbers of federally connected children; (4) providing separate authorizations and payments to LEAs for federally connected children with disabilities, increases in military children, construction, and facilities maintenance; and (5) reserving funds for additional assistance to heavily impacted LEAs. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes a new ESEA title IX, Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native Education, which adds revised Indian Education Act programs to ESEA. (Eliminates the current title VI provisions for Projects and Programs Designed to Address School Dropout Problems and to Strengthen Basic Education.) Authorizes appropriations for the following title VI part A Indian Education programs: (1) formula grants to LEAs; (2) special programs and projects to improve educational opportunities for Indian children, including grants for certain services and projects, Indian teacher and other helping professional development support and graduate training assistance, fellowships for Indian students, gifted and talented centers, and grants to tribes for education administrative planning and development; (3) special programs relating to adult education for Indians; (4) national research activities; and (5) Federal administration including a National Advisory Council on Indian Education. Native Hawaiian Education Act - Sets forth as part B of title IX, programs for Native Hawaiians. Establishes a Native Hawaiian Education Council to: (1) coordinate and assess educational and related services available to Native Hawaiians; and (2) guide Federal, State, and local agencies to focus resources for Native Hawaiian education. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants for Native Hawaiian: (1) curriculum development and teacher training and recruitment; (2) community-based education learning centers; (3) family-based education centers; (4) higher education; (5) gifted and talented education; and (6) special education. Authorizes appropriations. Alaska Native Educational Equity, Support and Assistance Act - Establishes, under part C of title IX, an Alaska Native Education program. Directs the Secretary to make grants to Alaska Native organizations, partnerships thereof or educational entities with experience in Alaska Native programs for: (1) educational planning; (2) implementation of educational plans; (3) curricula development; (4) preteacher training; (5) teacher recruitment; (6) inservice teacher training; (7) home instruction programs for preschool youngsters; and (8) student enrichment programs in science and mathematics. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes a new ESEA title X, Programs of National Significance, with the following various parts consisting of transferred or new ESEA programs. Establishes as part A a revised and renamed Fund for the Improvement of Education (currently under title IV as the Secretary's Fund for Innovation in Education). Establishes: (1) an elementary school counseling demonstration grant program; (2) a Partnerships in Character Education Pilot Project; (3) a Promoting Scholar-Athlete Competitions program; (4) Smaller Learning Communities program; (5) grants for national student and parent mock elections to promote voter participation in elections; and (6) a Model Projects program of grants to cultural institutions for model projects of outreach activities for at-risk children in communities served by such institutions, including integrating of cultural programming with other disciplines, including environmental, mathematics, and science programs. Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talended Students Education Act of 1994 - Revises the Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Education program under part B (currently under title IV). Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes appropriations, under part C, for a new Public Charter Schools program to increase public school choice through grants for innovative programs and exemptions from regulations that limit school operational and management flexibility. Provides, under part D Arts in Education, for: (1) an expanded Arts in Education program; and (2) demonstration grants for educational and cultural services for at-risk children and youth. Requires, if funding for the Arts in Education program does not reach a certain level, that all such program funds be used for model projects and programs: (1) in the performing arts for children and youth through the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; or (2) developed by Very Special Arts to assure participation in mainstream arts and education programs of persons of all ages with disabilities. Authorizes appropriations. Extends the authorization of appropriations, under part E, for the Inexpensive Book Distribution Program, through Reading Is Fundamental, Inc., giving priority to new projects serving a substantial number or percentage of children with special needs. Provides, under part F, for an expanded Civic Education program, including the \"We the People...The Citizen and the Constitution\" program as well as a new program to support attainment of challenging content and student performance standards in civics, government, and the law and of National Education Goals Three and Six. Authorizes appropriations. Extends the authorization of appropriations, under part G, for a revised Allen J. Ellender Fellowship Program, with Close Up Foundation activities for middle and secondary school students and teachers, recent immigrants, older Americans, and (added) students of migrant parents. Authorizes appropriations for a renamed De Lugo Territorial Education Improvement Program of grants for innovative education. 21st Century Community Learning Centers Act - Directs the Secretary to make grants to rural and inner city public schools or consortia for projects that benefit the educational needs of rural or inner city communities. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes under part J Urban and Rural Education Assistance. Authorizes appropriations for urban and rural education demonstration grants to eligible LEAs or SEAs, as well as grants to partnerships of higher education institutions and rural LEAs. Authorizes the President to conduct a White House Conference on Urban Education and a White House Conference on Rural Education. Sets forth a part K which revises and reauthorizes appropriations for the National Writing Project. Establishes, under part L, the Extended Time for Learning and Longer School Year program. Authorizes grants to LEAs for various activities, including: (1) research, development, and implementation of strategies, outreach, professional development, and community involvement, for extending learning time within and beyond the school day and year; and (2) public school improvement that includes expansion of time devoted to core academic subjects and extension of the school year to at least 210 days. Authorizes appropriations. Extends the authorization of appropriations, transferred to part M, for general assistance to improve public education in the Virgin Islands. Establishes a new ESEA title XI, Coordinated Services. Allows an LEA, individual school, or schools consortium to use specified funds received under ESEA for coordinating services projects to provide students and their families better access to social, health, and education services (but bars direct provision of health or health-related services). Requires project development and implementation or expansion plans. Requires various Federal agencies to review and report to the Congress on barriers to service coordination. Education Infrastructure Act of 1994 - Establishes a new ESEA title XII, School Facilities Infrastructure Improvement Act. Directs the Secretary to award grants to eligible LEAs to meet the National Education Goals by ensuring the health and safety of students through repair, renovation, alteration, and construction of public elementary or secondary school libraries, media centers, or facilities, used for academic or vocational instruction, including certain authorized activities. Sets forth requirements for: (1) maintenance of effort, supplementation of non-Federal funds, and general limitations; (2) payment of wages in accordance with the Davis-Bacon Act; and (3) Federal evaluation. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes an ESEA title XIII, Support and Assistance Programs to Improve Education. Includes under such national technical assistance and dissemination system: (1) comprehensive regional assistance centers; (2) State-based activities through the National Diffusion Network; (3) Eisenhower Regional Mathematics and Science Education Consortia; and (4) technology-based technical assistance. Authorizes appropriations. Revises ESEA General Provisions, transferring them from title X to title XIV. Makes competitive program requirements applicable to Bureau of Indian Affairs schools or consortia of schools and tribal or community organizations applying for assistance. Provides for: (1) flexibility in the use of administrative and other funds, through consolidation of State administrative funds for elementary and secondary education programs and consolidation of funds for local administration; (2) coordination of programs, including consolidated State and local plans and applications; (3) waivers of statutory and regulatory requirements; (4) certain uniform provisions (including barring Federal control over private, religious, or home schools) and certain prohibitions against Federal mandates, sex education, or violations of student rights with respect to prayer in public schools. Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994 - Establishes as part F of title XIV of ESEA, provisions with respect to Gun Possession. Requires LEAs, as a condition of receiving ESEA assistance from the State, to have in effect a policy requiring expulsion from school for at least one year of any student who has brough a firearm to a school under LEA jurisdiction. Prohibits ESEA funds to any LEA that does not have a policy requiring referral to the criminal justice or juvenile delinquency system of any student who brings a firearm or weapon to a school served by such agency. Directs the Secretary to collect data and disseminate Department policy with respect to disciplining children with disabilities. Sets forth general provisions with respect to evaluations. Expresses the sense of the Congress that Federal spending on education should increase by at least one percent per year until it reaches ten percent of the total Federal budget. Sets forth Buy American requirements.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Amendments to the General Education Provisions Act\n    \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Applicability of the General Education Provisions Act\n    Amends the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA) to revise applicability and other aspects.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Department of Education\n    Revises GEPA with respect to functions of the Department of Education.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Appropriations and Evaluations\n    Revises GEPA with respect to forward funding, availability of appropriations, contingent extension of programs, State reports, biennial evaluation reports, equity for students, teachers, and other program beneficiaries, disclosure requirements, and coordination.  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    Administration of Education Programs\n    Revises GEPA with respect to joint funding of programs, information collection and dissemination, review of application, parental involvement and dissemination, use of withheld funds, applications, regulations, reduction of record retention requirements, privacy rights, and enforcement.  \n    Part\n    E\n     - \n    Technical and Conforming Amendments\n    Makes various technical and conforming amendments to ESEA and related Acts.  \n    Part\n    F\n     - \n    Related Amendments to Other Acts\n    Makes related amendments to the Department of Education Organization Act and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Provides for a Special Assistant for Gender Equity in the Department.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Amendments to Other Acts\n    \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act\n    Amends the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) to revise provisions for allocations. Combines the current ESEA title I chapter I State agency program for the handicapped with the IDEA programs of grants to States and for infants and toddlers with disabilities. \n    Section\n    315\n     - \n    \n    Families of Children with Disabilities Support Act of 1994 - Amends IDEA to add a new Part I, Family Support. Directs the Secretary to make three-year grants to states for systems change activities for statewide systems of support for families with children with disabilities. Sets forth priorities and application requirements. Requires States desiring such assistance to designate lead entities and establish State Policy Councils for Families of Children with Disabilities. Includes among authorized activities training and technical assistance, interagency coordination, local or regional councils, outreach, policy studies, hearings and forums, public awareness and education, needs assessment, program data, and pilot demonstration projects. Requires State strategic plans, progress criteria, and reports. Requires panels of experts to evaluate grant applications. Directs the Secretary to make grants to or contracts with appropriate public or private agencies and organizations, including institutions of higher education, for: (1) providing technical assistance and information on statewide systems of family support; and (2) conducting a national evaluation of the program of grants to States. Directs the Secretary to: (1) review Federal programs with respect to their impact on such family support, consistent with specified policies; and (2) make grants or contracts for projects of national significance for developing national and State policies and practices for family-centered and family-directed systems of support for families of children with disabilities. Authorizes appropriations for such family support programs.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Educationfor Homeless Children and Youth\n    Amends the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act to revise provisions with respect to grants for State adult literacy initiatives and grants for State and local activities for the education of homeless children and youth. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Repeal of Impact Aid Statutes\n    Repeals certain Federal laws for impact aid. (Impact aid provisions are added to ESEA earlier in this Act.)  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    Amendments to Adult Education Act\n    Amends the Adult Education Act to include Even Start programs under State planning and coordination requirements. Extends the authorization of appropriations for national research activities.  \n    Part\n    E\n     - \n    Higher Education\n    Amends the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act with respect to the definition of institution of higher education, notwithstanding certain provisions of the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. \n    Section\n    352\n     - \n    \n    Makes a technical amendment to the Second Morrill Act.  \n    Section\n    353\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to revise definitions of eligible institutions. (Sec. 353A) Renames the Federal direct student loan program under HEA the William D. Ford Federal Direct Loan Program.  \n    Section\n    354\n     - \n    \n    Removes a limitation on expenditure under the authorization of appropriations for the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership Program under HEA.  \n    Section\n    355\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to exclude a student loan made pursuant to a lender-of-last-resort program when making reimbursement payment calculations under certain HEA provisions for guaranty agreements for reimbursing losses.  \n    Section\n    356\n     - \n    \n    Includes specified student loans made under the Public Health Service Act among thos eligible for the Federal consolidation loan program under HEA.  \n    Section\n    357\n     - \n    \n    Revises the definition of economic hardship, for student loan purposes.  \n    Section\n    358\n     - \n    \n    Includes related equipment, instrumentation, and furnishings under materials covered by the facilities authority of the Student Loan Marketing Association under HEA. Requires the Association to report on all facilities transactions in its annual report. (Sec. 358A) Provides that loans made under the William D. Ford Direct Loan Program that have the same terms, conditions and benefits as those under certain guaranteed loan provisions shall be known as Federal Direct Stafford/Ford Loans.  \n    Section\n    359\n     - \n    \n    Revises loan repayment deferment eligibility provisions.  \n    Section\n    360\n     - \n    \n    Makes certain clock and credit hour requirements for student aid under HEA inapplicable to diploma nursing schools. (Sec. 360A) Provides for eligibility for student aid for citizens of and attendees at certain institutions in the Republic of Palau and other specified territories. (Sec. 360B) Equity in Athletics Disclosure Act - Amends HEA to require institutions of higher education to disclose gender participation rates and program support expenditures in college athletic programs to prospective students and, upon request, to the public. Directs the Secretary to compile and publish annual reports of such data. (Sec. 360C) Revises HEA provisions for Federal insurance for bonds. (Sec. 360D) Directs the Secretary to establish a program of grants to States for workplace and community transition training for incarcerated youth offenders. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    F\n     - \n    Other Acts\n    Amends the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (Public Law 103-227) to repeal certain provisions relating to leadership in educational technology and the Office of Educational Technology. Allows the National Education Goals Panel and the National Education Standards and Improvement Council to accept gifts. Revises provisions relating to LEA plan approval. Reserves for outlying areas a portion of funds for State planning for improving student achievement through integration of technology into curriculum. \n    Section\n    362\n     - \n    \n    Repeals: (1) the National Writing Project of title II of the Educational Council Act of 1991; and (2) the Native Hawaiian Education Program of title IV of the Augustus F. Hawkins-Robert T. Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Amendments of 1988.  \n    Section\n    364\n     - \n    \n    Repeals: (1) the Star Schools Program Assistance Act; and (2) the Fund for the Improvement and Reform of Schools and Teaching Act.  \n    Section\n    366\n     - \n    \n    Repeals provisions for authorization of appropriations for programs of national significance under the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act of 1988.  \n    Section\n    367\n     - \n    \n    Repeals the Indian Education Act of 1988.  \n    Section\n    368\n     - \n    \n    Reduces certain payments to States under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.  \n    Section\n    369\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applies Technology Education Act with respect to the territories.  \n    Section\n    370\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act to revise provisions for the Family Support Centers program with respect to administrative costs, minimum grant amount, and report due date. Extends the authorization of appropriations for such program.  \n    Section\n    371\n     - \n    \n    Amends the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965 to double the maximum amounts allowed for FY 1995 administration of programs by the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities.  \n    Section\n    372\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Department of Education Organization Act to provide for: (1) an Office of Indian Education; and (2) an Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs.  \n    Part\n    G\n     - \n    Library Services and Construction Reauthorization\n    Amends the Library Services and Construction Act to extend through FY 1995 the authorization and availability of appropriations for various programs under such Act, as well as for Family Learning Centers and Library Literacy Centers.  \n    Part\n    H\n     - \n    Amendments to Statutes Pertaining to Indian Education\n    Amends the Education Amendments of 1978 to require coordination of standards for BIA-funded schools with those in State plans under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to: (1) study such standards, directly or through a contract with an Indian organization; and (2) revise such BIA minimum academic standards, and provide alternative or modified standards where necessary. Authorizes the tribal governing body, or the local school board designated by such body, to waive standards it deems inappropriate. Provides for assistance to school boards of contract and grant schools in implementing standards. Requires certain standards for closure, consolidation, or substantial curtailment of program at any BIA school or peripheral dormitory. Authorizes appropriations for implementation of applicable standards for all BIA schools and contract or grant schools. Requires all BIA funded schools to include in their curriculum an alcohol and substance abuse prevention and treatment instructional program. Sets forth provisions for BIA: (1) national criteria for dormitory situations; (2) regulations; (3) school boundaries; (4) facilities construction; (5) education functions; (6) allotment formula; (7) administrative cost grants; (8) establishment of a Division of Budget Analysis within the Office of Indian Education Programs; (9) policy for Indian control of Indian education; and (10) education personnel. Requires establishment of a system of uniform direct funding and support of all BIA-funded schools. Provides for BIA schools' management information system, education policies, uniform procedures and practices, recruitment of Indian educators, rights of Indian students, regulations, annual report, voluntary services, proration of pay, extracurricular activities, and payments. Provides for grants for: (1) tribal early childhood development programs; and (2) tribal departments of education. \n    Section\n    382\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988 to revise provisions for grant conditions and payments.  \n    Section\n    383\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Tribally Controlled Community Colleges Assistance Act of 1978 to revise provisions for endowment funds.  \n    Section\n    384\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Goals 2000: Educate America Act to require certain BIA cost analysis and studies, including a study of the current weighted student budget method and a possible alternative program/school-based budget system.  \n    Section\n    386\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Higher Education Amendments of 1986 with respect to provisions for the staff and endowment fund of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development.  \n    Part\n    I\n     - \n    Cross References and Conforming Amendments\n    Sets forth cross references and technical and conforming amendments to various Federal laws.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    National Education Statistics\n    National Education Statistics Act of 1994 - Reauthorizes and revises provisions for the National Center for Educational Statistics (the Center) and the National Assessment of Educational Progress. \n    Section\n    403\n     - \n    \n    Establishes the Center, within the Office of Educational Research and Improvement in the Department of Education and headed by the Commissioner of Education Statistics, under this Act while repealing similar provisions under the General Education Provisions Act.  \n    Section\n    404\n     - \n    \n    Revises provisions for the Center's: (1) duties; (2) performance; (3) reports; (4) Advisory Council on Education Statistics; (5) confidentiality; (6) dissemination; (7) cooperative education statistics systems; (8) National Assessment of Educational Progress; and (9) National Assessment Governing Board.  \n    Section\n    413\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Miscellaneous Provisions\n    \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Act\n    Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Act of 1994 - Directs the Secretary of Energy to establish the Department of Energy Albert Einstein Distinguished Educator Fellowship Program to provide fellowships within the National Laboratories to outstanding elementary or secondary school teachers of mathematics or science. \n    Section\n    517\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary of Energy to establish a Waste Management Education Research Consortium (WERC), including programs involving environmentally conscious manufacturing and waste management activities that have undergraduate and graduate educational training as a component.  \n    Section\n    518\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for the Einstein fellowships and the WERC program.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Community School Partnerships\n    Community School Partnership Act - Establishes a Community School Partnerships program. \n    Section\n    525\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to award a competitive endowment grant to a national organization to support the establishment or ongoing work of area program centers that foster development of local affiliated chapters in high-poverty areas to improve high school graduation rates and postsecondary attendance through providing academic support services and scholarship assistance for postsecondary education.  \n    Section\n    527\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    1994 Institutions\n    Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994 - Provides land-grant status for specified tribally controlled community colleges and postsecondary vocational institutions, Bureau of Indian Affairs postsecondary institutions, and the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts (1994 Institutions). \n    Section\n    533\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations, in lieu of public land or script donations, for such 1994 Institutions. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a 1994 Institutions Endowment Fund. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    534\n     - \n    \n    Amends specified Federal Law to authorize appropriations for such 1994 Institutions. Exempts such funds from matching requirements.  \n    Section\n    535\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to make two or more institutional capacity building grants for each of FY 1996 through 2000 to assist such 1994 Institutions. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    Workers Technology Skill Development\n    Workers Technology Skill Development Act - Directs the Secretary of Labor to award grants to eligible entities to facilitate worker involvement in developing and implementing advanced workplace technologies and practices. \n    Section\n    546\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of Labor, in cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce, to assist employers, employer associations, workers, and labor and worker organizations in identifying and disseminating information on best workplace practices and workplace practices assessment tools.  \n    Section\n    547\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    E\n     - \n    Multiethnic Placement\n    Subpart 1: Multiethnic Placement - Howard M. Metzenbaum Multiethnic Placement Act of 1994 - Prohibits an agency or entity that receives Federal assistance and is involved in adoptive or foster care placements from delaying or denying the placement of a child solely on the basis of race, color, or national origin of the adoptive or foster parent, or the child, involved. Permits consideration of the child's cultural, ethnic, or racial background when such factors are: (1) considered in conjunction with other factors; and (2) relevant to the child's best interest. \n    Section\n    553\n     - \n    \n    Grants any individual aggrieved by a noncomplying agency or entity the right to bring an action in the appropriate U.S. District Court. Makes such noncompliance a violation of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Provides that such prohibition does not affect the application of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978.  \n    Section\n    554\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Social Security Act to require child welfare services programs to provide for the diligent recruitment of potential foster and adoptive families that reflect the ethnic and racial diversity of children in the State for whom foster and adoptive homes are needed. Subpart 2: Other Provision - Amends the Social Security Act with respect to the effect of failure to carry out a State plan.  \n    Part\n    F\n     - \n    Miscellaneous\n    Requires budget compliance. \n    Section\n    562\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Department of Education to display in documents transmitted to the Congress explaining the President's budget request for the Special Education accocunt amounts included in the request to offset termination by this Act of the State-operated program for the students with disabilities, under part D of chapter 1 of title I of ESEA.  \n    Section\n    563\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the Secretary from issuing any additional regulations concerning specified final regulations relating to the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act.  \n    Section\n    564\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes a specified rate of pay for anyone appointed during calendar year 1994 to be Deputy Director of the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research.  \n    Section\n    565\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior to study and report to specified congressional committees on the possible need for alternative institutional and administrative systems at Haskell Indian Junior College to support its transition to a four-year university.  \n    Section\n    566\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, through the BIA, to establish therapeutic model demonstration schools for Indian youth attending off-reservation boarding schools. Requires a report on such demonstration schools to specified congressional committees.  \n    Section\n    567\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to waive any required amount of local effort in excess of a specified amount in awarding funds to the Winona R-III School District, Missouri.  \n    Section\n    568\n     - \n    \n    Exempts, temporarily, certain agreements of two or more institutions of higher education, at which all students are admitted on a need-blind basis, with respect to awards of need-based educational aid. Amends the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 with respect to institutions' authority to award need-based aid.  \n    Section\n    569\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth certain conditions with respect to determinations of eligibility for an amount of impact aid."