"5/19/1994--Conference report filed in House. Independent Counsel Reauthorization Act of 1994 - Amends the Federal judicial code to reauthorize the independent counsel law for an additional five years. Requires an independent counsel to: (1) conduct all activities with due regard for expense, authorize only reasonable and lawful expenditures, and (promptly upon taking office) assign to a specific employee the duty of certifying that counsel expenditures are reasonable and made in accordance with law; and (2) comply with the established policies of the Department of Justice (DOJ) regarding expenditures of funds, except to the extent that compliance would be inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. Directs: (1) the Director of the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to provide administrative support and guidance to each independent counsel; and (2) the Administrator of General Services to provide office space as well. Sets forth provisions on counsel: (1) per diem expenses; (2) employee pay comparability; (3) compliance with DOJ policies; (4) reports; and (5) reappointment. Provides for audits by the Comptroller General. Confers responsibility on DOJ and the Office of Government Ethics for enforcing standards of conduct applicable to independent counsels. Gives the Attorney General (AG) up to 30 days to determine whether a preliminary investigation is warranted under the law. Revises recusal, disclosure, and attorney's fees requirements. Allows DOJ personnel to be detailed to the staff of the independent counsel upon request. Modifies provisions governing the AG's authority to use the independent counsel process in criminal cases involving Members of Congress and in cases where the subject matter raises conflict of interest concerns. Narrows mandatory postemployment coverage under the law for certain individuals. Amends the physical or mental disability grounds for removal of an independent counsel to allow such grounds only if not prohibited by law protecting disabled persons from discrimination on the basis of such disability. Requires the President to submit a report to the Congress on White House Office personnel."