"5/4/1993--Passed Senate amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Elevation of the Environmental Protection Agency to Cabinet Level Title II: Establishment of the Commission on Improving Environmental Protection Title III: Effective Date Department of Environmental Protection Act of 1993- Title I: Elevation of the Environmental Protection Agency to Cabinet Level\n    Department of Environmental Protection Act - Redesignates the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as the Department of Environmental Protection. Encourages the Secretary of Environmental Protection to: (1) assist the Secretary of State in participating in international environmental protection agreements and organizations; (2) conduct research on and develop responses to international environmental problems; and (3) provide assistance to foreign countries and international bodies to improve the environment. Sets forth provisions concerning guidance for small businesses and other persons in applying for permits. Establishes: (1) a Small Business Ombudsman Office to carry out environmental compliance and technical assistance for small businesses; (2) a Bureau of Environmental Statistics; and (3) an Advisory Council on Environmental Statistics. Requires the Secretary to carry out environmental compliance and technical assistance programs for small governmental jurisdictions. Authorizes grants to, and contracts with, State and local governments, Indian tribes, universities, and other organizations to assist in data collection. Directs the Secretary to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences for a report on the adequacy of the Department's data collection procedures and capabilities. Authorizes appropriations. Abolishes the Council on Environmental Quality and transfers the Council's functions to the Secretary. Sets forth conflict-of-interest disclosure requirements for persons entering into arrangements for services with the Secretary. Requires public notice when the award of a contract may result in a conflict of interests. Establishes the Office of Environmental Justice to: (1) develop a plan to ensure equality in environmental protection; (2) evaluate whether environmental policy is helping individuals who suffer the highest exposure to pollution; (3) collect data on environmental health effects; (4) identify environmental high impact areas which are subject to the highest loadings of toxic chemicals; and (5) assess health effects that may be caused by emissions in high impact areas. Sets forth requirements for risk assessment with respect to regulations promulgated by the Secretary concerning human health or the environment. Directs the President to report to the Congress on measures to provide that: (1) a single Federal agency be responsible for making technical determinations on agricultural lands with respect to wetlands to reduce confusion among agricultural producers; and (2) provide that the Soil Conservation Service be responsible for all such technical determinations on agricultural lands.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Establishment of the Commission on Improving Environmental Protection\n    Establishes the Commission on Improving Environmental Protection to make recommendations on the implementation of Federal environmental laws to protect human health and the environment. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Effective Date\n    Sets forth the effective date of this Act."