"9/21/1994--Passed House amended. Headwaters Forest Act - Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to modify the boundaries of the Six Rivers National Forest, California, to include certain lands acquired under this Act and referred to as the Six Rivers National Forest Addition. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire land, with the owner's consent, within the boundaries of the Addition by donation, by purchase, or by exchange for other excess or surplus lands under the jurisdiction of any other department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States (subject to the advance approval of the transfer of such lands by law to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary if the Secretary identifies the lands as suitable for use in making an exchange). Prohibits the Secretary from acquiring such lands by condemnation. Directs the Secretary to develop and implement a land acquisition plan giving priority to the acquisition of lands within the boundaries of the Addition. Authorizes appropriations. Terminates the Secretary's authority to acquire lands under this Act after the end of the ten-year period beginning on the enactment of this Act. Designates acquired lands in California which are within the Headwaters Forest Wilderness as a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System. Requires the Secretary to develop a comprehensive management plan for the acquired lands detailing measures for the preservation of the existing old growth redwood ecosystems, including: (1) a prohibition on timber sales from lands within the old growth redwood groves in the Addition; and (2) measures to restore lands affected by previous timber harvests to mitigate watershed degradation and impairment of habitat for the marbled murrelet, northern spotted owl, native salmon stocks, and other old-growth forest dependent species. Sets forth provisions regarding payments to local governments in lieu of taxes for lands acquired under this Act. Directs the Secretary to analyze an area's potential to be added to the Addition, to identify the area's natural resources, to study the watershed management of the area and the cost of acquiring the land, and to report the results to specified congressional committees. Provides that until the lands in the Addition are acquired under this Act, the owners of the lands shall be entitled to full and lawful use and enjoyment of the lands. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed: (1) to impose any limitations upon any otherwise lawful use of the lands by the owners; (2) as authority to defer the submission, review, approval, or implementation of any timber harvest or similar plan with respect to any portion of the lands; or (3) to grant a cause of action against the owner of the lands. Allows the owners of such lands to agree of their own accord to defer some or all lawful enjoyment and use of the land for a certain period of time. Permits mechanical transport anywhere within the boundaries of the Forest with respect to any health or safety emergency. Expresses the sense of the Congress that only American-made equipment and products should be purchased with funds made available under this Act. Requires the Secretary to notify entities of this congressional statement when providing payments under this Act."