"11/22/1993--Passed Senate amended. Hardrock Mining Reform Act of 1993 - Renames the Act of July 23, 1955, as the Surface Resources Act of 1955, and the Act of July 31, 1947, as the Materials Act of 1947. Sets forth fees for mining claim location and maintenance, including waivers and reduced fees for claimants holding fewer than 50 claims. Amends certain Federal mining law to limit the requirement that at least $100 worth of labor or improvements be performed annually on claims located after May 1872 to claims that are eligible for a waiver or reduced fee under this Act. Imposes royalties upon the production and sale of locatable minerals from any mining claim located after enactment of this Act. Establishes the Hardrock Mining Royalty Review Commission to review and report to certain congressional committees on the effect of such royalties upon the hardrock mining industry. Sets forth limitations upon federally issued mining patents. Prohibits mineral activities on Federal land that cause more than a minimal disturbance of surface resources unless a plan of operations has been approved by the Secretary of the Interior. Mandates that: (1) all operations under such plan be conducted in accordance with Federal and State environmental laws and be inspected quarterly for compliance and/or enforcement; (2) lands patented after enactment of this Act be subject to State and/or Federal mining reclamation laws; and (3) financial assurances for land reclamation be provided. Proscribes full- or part-time residential occupancy of a mining claim. Amends the Surface Resources Act of 1955 to subject certain mineral deposits to the disposal requirements of the Materials Act of 1947. Prescribes percentage guidelines for allocation of receipts received under this Act between the Federal Treasury and the applicable State treasury. Establishes the Abandoned Hardrock Mine Reclamation Program under which grants shall be made to eligible States for reclamation and restoration of land and water resources adversely affected by past hardrock mining. Directs the Secretary to approve any State abandoned minerals mine reclamation program upon finding that it has the means and necessary legislation to implement such program, and the program complies with this Act. Authorizes appropriations."