"3/31/1993--Conference report filed in House. Establishes the budget for FY 1994 and sets forth appropriate budgetary levels for FY 1995 through 1998. Sets forth recommended budgetary levels of Federal revenues, new budget authority, budget outlays, deficits, public debt, and credit activity. Sets forth the increase in the public debt subject to limitation. Displays Federal retirement trust fund balances. Sets forth Social Security trust fund revenues and outlays for Senate enforcement purposes. Sets forth funding levels for each major functional category. Requires the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Committee on Finance to report reconciliation legislation to their respective Houses containing recommendations to change laws to increase the statutory limit on the public debt to not more than a specified amount. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the Government should sell assets from time to time; and (2) the amounts realized from such sales will not recur on an annual basis and do not reduce the demand for credit. Allows budget authority and outlay allocations for legislation that increases funding for certain purposes when legislation has been reported that will not, if enacted, increase the deficit for FY 1994 through 1998. Describes such purposes as funding: (1) to improve the health and nutrition of children and to provide for services to protect children and strengthen families; (2) for economic growth initiatives for unemployment compensation and related programs; (3) to make continuing improvements in ongoing health care programs and comprehensive health care reform; (4) to improve educational opportunities for individuals at the early childhood, elementary, secondary, or higher education levels, or to invest in America's children; (5) to preserve and rebuild the United States maritime industry; (6) to reform the financing of Federal elections; and (7) to implement trade-related legislation. Limits the levels of social security outlays and revenues for this resolution to the current services levels. Expresses the sense of the House of Representatives that legislation enacting tax increases called for in this budget resolution provide that net revenues shall not be counted for the purposes of calculating any deficit increase. Establishes Senate enforcement procedures to extend the system of discretionary spending limits to budget resolutions for FY 1996 through 1998 and enforce pay-as-you-go spending. Expresses the sense of the Senate with respect to the barge tax, social security taxes, home heating fuel rates, relief from the energy tax for the agriculture industry, the effects of inflation on national defense, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, grazing fees, hardrock mining royalty fees, the Head Start program, education reform and initiatives, defense conversion programs, medical research, Federal health care costs and reform, the Women, Infants, and Children program, the community policing program, drug supply reduction programs, debt limit in reconciliation, the establishment of a deficit reduction account, line item veto authority, and savings from Government streamlining."