"1/5/1993--Introduced. Adopts the Rules of the House of Representatives of the 102d Congress as the Rules of the House of Representatives for the 103d Congress, with the following amendments. Deletes the teller vote in the House. Establishes the Offices of General Counsel and Inspector General of the House. Authorizes the Speaker to declare recesses when no question is pending before the House. Creates the position of Director of Non-Legislative and Financial Services. Prioritizes consideration of resolutions reported as questions of privilege in the House and outlines such procedure. Deletes provisions relating to the tenure of the ranking minority member of the Committee on the Budget in the House. Renames the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs as the Committee on Natural Resources. Updates specified references to executive branch entities. Requires the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight to notify certain House officers of any matter that cannot be resolved by the Subcommittee because of a tie vote. Authorizes the Speaker to remove Members or appoint additional Members to select and conference committees. Abolishes the Select Committee on Aging. Eliminates the limitation on committees meeting while the House is sitting under the five-minute amendment rule. Establishes criteria with respect to a question of quorum relating to a roll call vote to report a bill out of the committee. Prohibits points of order relating to such question unless they were made timely in committee. Requires each Delegate to the House to be elected to serve on standing committees in the same manner as Members and to possess the same power and privileges as the latter in such committees (including a Committee on the Whole). Specifies additional times when the Speaker has the authority to reduce an electronic roll call vote to a minimum of five minutes. Repeals provisions requiring a Congressional Budget Office cost estimate to be included in the text of any measure increasing, decreasing, or providing direct spending or receipts. Authorizes a Member, Resident Commissioner, or Delegate to serve as Chairman of the Committee of the Whole. Provides for an automatic de novo vote in the full House whenever the Delegate and Resident Commissioner votes are decisive in the Committee of the Whole. Requires the Committee to resume its sitting after the announcement of such vote. Authorizes the Speaker to designate the time or place in the legislative schedule for consideration of a motion to instruct House conferees or to discharge them and appoint new conferees. Gives preference over all other motions to a motion to insist on disagreement to a specified Senate amendment to a conference report on an appropriations bill if such motion is made by the chairman of a committee having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the amendment. Requires a vote of the House to sustain an objection by a Member of the use of any exhibit in debate. Prohibits a Member from sending any mass mailing outside his or her congressional district. Grants the Committee on House Administration the authority to issue rules and regulations applying the rights and protections of the Fair Labor Standards Act in the House. Establishes an Office of Fair Employment Practices. Sets forth provisions relating to its operation. Repeals rules LII and LIII which establish the position of Director of Non-Legislative and Financial Services and the Office of Inspector General and incorporates such provisions in rule VI."