"8/8/1994--House receded and concurred with amendment. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1995 Appropriations Title II: Fiscal Year 1994 Supplemental District of Columbia Funds Title I: Fiscal Year 1995 Appropriations\n    District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1995 - Appropriates funds to the District of Columbia for FY 1995 for the Federal payment to the District of Columbia and the Federal contribution to retirement funds. Appropriates specified sums out of the District of Columbia general fund for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) human resources development; (4) public safety and justice; (5) public education; (6) human support services; (7) public works; (8) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (9) repayments of specified loans and interest; (10) repayment of the general fund deficit; (11) short-term borrowing; (12) employees' optical and dental benefits; (13) employees' pay adjustments; (14) the D.C. General Hospital deficit payment; (15) the Rainy Day Fund; (16) job-producing economic development incentives; (17) the Cash Reserve Fund; (18) capital outlay; (19) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund; (20) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; (21) the Cable Television Fund; and (22) the Starplex Fund. Requires the District of Columbia Mayor to reduce appropriations and expenditures for personal and nonpersonal services by $13.632 million. \n    Section\n    101\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth certain uses of and restrictions on the expenditure of appropriations made by this Act.  \n    Section\n    110\n     - \n    \n    Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1996 be transmitted to the Congress by April 15, 1995.  \n    Section\n    123\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Mayor to submit to the D.C. Council, within 30 days after the end of the first quarter of FY 1995, the FY 1995 revenue estimates.  \n    Section\n    132\n     - \n    \n    Requires each agency, office, and instrumentality of the District to implement a hiring freeze, to fill only vacancies in essential positions, and to fill essential positions from among employees holding non-essential positions. Prohibits a non-essential position that becomes vacant, other than by termination for cause, from being filled. Requires the Council of the District to enact legislation to implement this Act.  \n    Section\n    133\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds in this Act from being used to: (1) provide for salaries, expenses, or other costs associated with the offices of U.S. Senator or Representative under the District of Columbia Statehood Constitutional Convention Initiatives Act of 1979; or (2) perform abortions except when it is made known to the entity or official to which funds are appropriated under this Act that such procedure is necessary to save the life of the mother or that the pregnancy is the result of an act of rape or incest.  \n    Section\n    135\n     - \n    \n    Requires the District of Columbia Retirement Board to enter into an agreement with an independent firm that meets specified requirements to prepare and submit to the Board a written set of findings and recommendations regarding the appropriateness and adequacy of its fiduciary, management, and investment practices and procedures. Requires the Board to report to the Congress on such findings and recommendations.  \n    Section\n    137\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Mayor to report to specified congressional committees: (1) within 15 days after the end of every calendar quarter (beginning in FY 1995) on the financial and budgetary status of the District of Columbia government for the previous quarter; and (2) by the date on which the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report of the District of Columbia for FY 1994 is issued, on all revenues and expenditures of the general fund of the District that are characterized as nonappropriated in such Report.  \n    Section\n    138\n     - \n    \n    Reduces appropriations for the District of Columbia for FY 1995 by $140 million. Requires the Mayor to: (1)allocate the reduction among various appropriations (excluding the Rainy Day Fund) and to take the reduction only from expenses for personal and nonpersonal services; and (2) report to specified congressional committees on a detailed plan to implement such reduction. Requires supplemental budget requests for FY 1995 submitted by the District to the Congress to incorporate the reduction and the allocation of the reduction under the plan or plan revisions. Prohibits: (1) total disbursements and net payables of the District of Columbia government covered from the general fund and from each of the government's other funds (excluding capital projects, trust, and agency funds) during FY 1995 from exceeding the total receipts collected by the government and available for such funds during FY 1995; (2) disbursements and net payables from such funds, with the latter exceptions, during FY 1995, from exceeding the receipts collected by the government and available for the general fund and for each such fund during FY 1995; and (3) such disbursements and net payables from each of the government's capital projects, trust, and agency funds, during FY 1995, from exceeding the total cash available to each such fund at the beginning of FY 1995 plus the receipts of each such fund during FY 1995. Requires: (1) the placement in escrow of portions of the annual Federal payment to the District of Columbia government for FY 1996 for enforcement of the appropriations reduction and the limitation on disbursements and net payables; and (2) the Mayor to report to specified congressional committees on spending reductions, disbursements, payables, and receipts before the escrowed amounts shall be available for use by the government. Requires the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor for Financial Management and Controller to jointly report to specified congressional committees on the District of Columbia general fund, each of the government's other funds, capital projects, trust, and agency funds that violated the limitation applicable to such fund.  \n    Section\n    139\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of the Congress that all equipment and products purchased with funds made available in this Act should be American-made. Requires the head of Federal or District of Columbia agencies to provide a notice describing such congressional statement to each entity that is provided financial assistance, or is contracted with, using such funds.  \n    Section\n    140\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds made available pursuant to this Act from being used to implement or enforce: (1) any registration system for unmarried, cohabitating couples that are homosexual, lesbian, or heterosexual, including registration for the extension of employment, health, or governmental benefits to such couples on the same basis as that extended to legally married couples; or (2) the District Domestic Partner Act (also called the District of Columbia Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992).  \n    Section\n    141\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the total number of full-time equivalent positions financed by the District of Columbia appropriated funds from exceeding 33,588.  \n    Section\n    142\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to study and report to the Congress on the Washington Aqueduct, including a recommendation on the advisability of establishing a non-Federal regional water authority and transferring ownership of, and operating responsibilities for, the facility from the Department of the Army to such regional authority.  \n    Section\n    143\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Board of Education of the District of Columbia to annually compile an accurate and verifiable report on the positions and employees in the District's public school system. Requires: (1) the first report to include information for FY 1993 through 1995, to be verified by independent auditors, and to be submitted to the Congress, the Mayor, and the Council of the District of Columbia by FY 1995; and (2) each subsequent report to be submitted by April 15 of each year. Requires the Board to submit to the Congress, the Mayor, and the D.C. Council, by October 1 of 1994 and each succeeding year or within 15 calendar days after the enactment of the District of Columbia Appropriations Act for the fiscal year (whichever occurs first), a revised appropriated funds operating budget for the public school system of the District for the fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal services, with anticipated actual expenditures.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1994 Supplemental District of Columbia Funds\n    District of Columbia Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions Act, 1994 - Makes supplemental appropriations (including rescissions) to the District of Columbia for FY 1994 for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) human resources development; (4) public safety and justice; (5) public education; (6) human support services; (7) repayment of the general fund recovery debt; (8) severance pay; (9) short-term borrowing; and (10) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund. Transfers to the General Fund of the District of Columbia specified amounts from the Cable Television Enterprise Fund and the Starplex Fund. Rescinds specified FY 1994 funds earmarked for: (1) public works; (2) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (3) repayment of loans and interests; (4) employee optical and dental benefits; (5) the D.C. General Hospital deficit payment; (6) the Cash Reserve Fund; and (7) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund."