"7/31/2007--Passed House amended. (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on July 31, 2007. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Eightmile Wild and Scenic River Act - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate as a component of the national wild and scenic rivers system (the system) certain segments of the main stem and specified tributaries of the Eightmile River, Connecticut. Declares that such segments shall be managed in accordance with the Eightmile River Watershed Management Plan and such amendments as the Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with this Act. Deems the Plan to satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive management plan required under the Act. Instructs the Secretary to coordinate management responsibilities regarding the Eightmile River with the Eightmile Coordinating Committee, as specified in the Plan. Allows the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements for administration and for assistance, advice, and cooperation to plan, protect, and manage river resources with the state of Connecticut, the towns of Salem, Lyme, and East Haddam, and appropriate local planning and environmental organizations. Requires the agreements to be consistent with the Plan and allows provisions for federal assistance. Prohibits the Eightmile River from being administered as part of the National Park System or being subject to related regulations. Deems: (1) the zoning ordinances adopted by the towns, in effect as of December 8, 2005, to satisfy the standards and requirements under the Act regarding the prohibition on federal acquisition of lands by condemnation for inclusion in any wild, scenic, or recreational river area; and (2) such towns to be \"villages\" for such purposes. Limits the authority of the Secretary to acquire lands for purposes of the Act to acquisition by donation or acquisition with the owner's consent and subjects it to the additional criteria set forth in the Plan. Recognizes specified tributaries of the Eightmile River watershed as integral to the protection and enhancement of the river and watershed. Authorizes appropriations."