"7/16/2008--Passed House amended. Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (the Act) to designate specified segments of the Taunton River in Massachusetts as a component of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Requires the river segments to be managed in accordance with the Taunton River Stewardship Plan, dated July 2005, including any amendment to such Plan, that the Secretary of the Interior determines to be consistent with this Act. Authorizes the Secretary, in order to provide for the protection, preservation, and enhancement of each river segment, to enter into cooperative agreements, which may include provisions for financial and other assistance, with: (1) the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (including the political subdivisions of Massachusetts); (2) the Taunton River Stewardship Council; and (3) any appropriate nonprofit, as determined by the Secretary. Bars the river segments from being: (1) administered as a unit of the National Park System; or (2) subject to the laws (including regulations) that govern the administration of such System. Considers the zoning ordinances adopted by specified towns and cities, including any provision of the zoning ordinances related to the conservation of floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses associated with any river segment designated by this Act, to satisfy each standard and requirement under the Act regarding the prohibition on the federal acquisition of certain lands by condemnation for inclusion in any national, wild, scenic, or recreational river area. Authorizes the Secretary, respecting each river segment, to only acquire parcels of land by donation or with the owner's consent. Prohibits the acquisition of any parcel by condemnation. Requires the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and private industry, to complete a report regarding the energy resources available on the lands and waters included in the segments of the Taunton River designated by this Act. Prohibits anything in this Act from: (1) being construed as affecting the authority or responsibility of Massachusetts to manage or regulate fish and resident wildlife, including the authority to regulate hunting, fishing, trapping, and recreational shooting; (2) being construed as limiting access for hunting, fishing, trapping, or recreational shooting; or (3) impacting the supply of domestically-produced energy resources."