"6/16/2008--Reported to Senate amended. New England National Scenic Trail Designation Act - Amends the National Trails System Act to designate the New England National Scenic Trail as a National Scenic Trail. Requires the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with federal, state, tribal, regional, and local agencies, and other organizations, to administer the Trail after considering the recommendations of the Metacomet Monadnock Mattabesett Trail System National Scenic Trail Feasibility Study and Environmental Assessment prepared by the National Park Service (NPS), dated Spring 2006. Bars the acquisition of any land or interest for the Trail by the government without the owner's consent. Directs the Secretary to consider the actions outlined in the Trail Management Blueprint as the framework for management and administration of the Trail. Allows for the development of additional or more detailed plans for the administration, management, protection, access, maintenance, or development of the Trail consistent with the Blueprint, and as approved by the Secretary. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative agreements with Massachusetts, Connecticut, and other regional, local, and private organizations deemed necessary and desirable to accomplish cooperative trail objectives consistent with the Blueprint. Permits such an agreement to include provisions for limited financial assistance to encourage participation in the planning, acquisition, protection, operation, development, or maintenance of the Trail. Encourages the Secretary to work with New Hampshire and appropriate local and private organizations to include that part of the Metacomet-Monadock Trail in New Hampshire (which lies between Royalston, Massachusetts, and Jaffrey, New Hampshire) as a component of the Trail. Makes inclusion of this segment, as well as other potential side or connecting trails, contingent upon written application to the Secretary by appropriate state and local jurisdictions and a finding by the Secretary that trail management and administration is consistent with the Blueprint."