"6/30/2000--Passed House amended. Quality Health-Care Coalition Act of 2000 - Entitles any health care professionals negotiating with a health plan, regarding contract terms under which they provide health care items or services for which plan benefits are provided under such plan, to the same treatment under antitrust laws as that accorded to a collective bargaining unit recognized under the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA). Provides that this Act: (1) applies only to health care professionals excluded from NLRA; and (2) shall not be construed as revising any NLRA provision or affecting the status of any group of persons under NLRA. Makes the exemption (from antitrust laws) under this Act: (1) only applicable to conduct occurring during the three-year period beginning on the enactment date of this Act; and (2) continue to apply for one year after the end of such period to contracts entered into before the end of such period. Provides that nothing in this Act shall exempt from the application of the antitrust laws any agreement or otherwise unlawful conspiracy that excludes, limits the participation or reimbursement of, or otherwise limits the scope of services to be provided by any health care professional or group of health care professionals with respect to the performance of services that are within their scope of practice as defined or permitted by relevant law or regulation. Provides that nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect the application of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (which prohibits exclusion from participation in, denial of benefits of, and discrimination under federally assisted programs on the ground of race, color, or national origin). Provides that nothing in this Act shall apply to negotiations between health care professionals and health plans pertaining to benefits provided under: (1) Medicare, Medicaid, and State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) provisions of the Social Security Act; (2) programs, under specified Federal laws, relating to medical and dental care for members of the uniformed services, veterans' medical care, and Federal employees' health benefits; and (3) the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. Provides that nothing in this Act shall apply to negotiations specifically relating to requiring a health plan to cover abortion or abortion services. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on the impact of this Act during the six-month period beginning with the third year of the specified three-year period, together with recommendations on any extension of this Act and possible changes to it. Expresses the sense of the Congress that decisions regarding medical care and treatment should be made by the physician or health care professional in consultation with the patient."