"4/3/2008--Passed House amended. United States Fire Administration Reauthorization Act of 2008 - \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 to authorize appropriations for the U.S. Fire Administration (USFA) for FY2009-FY2012.  \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Superintendent of the National Academy for Fire Prevention and Control to include within fire service personnel training: (1) response, tactics, and strategies for dealing with non-terrorist-caused national catastrophes and incidents that involve weapons of mass destruction; (2) applying new technology and developing strategies and tactics for fighting wildfires; (3) response, tactics, and strategies for fighting large-scale or multiple fires in a general area that cross jurisdictional boundaries, fires occurring at the wildland-urban interface, and fires involving hazardous materials; and (4) advanced emergency medical services (EMS) training. Requires the Administrator of USFA to: (1) include in triennial reports information about changes made to the National Fire Academy curriculum; and (2) consolidate and integrate into that curriculum a course on incident command training for fire service personnel for fighting fires at U.S. ports and in marine environments, including fires on the water and aboard vessels. Provides that such course shall not relate to border and port security. Authorizes the Administrator to contract with one or more nationally recognized organizations that have established on-site training programs that prepare fire service personnel to meet national voluntary consensus standards for fire service personnel and that facilitate delivery of education and training programs, provided that such an organization: (1) provides training that leads to certification by a program accredited by a nationally recognized accreditation organization; or (2) provides training under such a program pursuant to a cooperative agreement with a federal agency. Limits the amounts that may be expended by the Administrator to carry out this provision to 4% of the amount authorized to be appropriated in that fiscal year to facilitate the delivery of education and training programs directly to fire service personnel.  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Administrator to use specified funds during FY2009-FY2011 to update the National Fire Incident Reporting system to an Internet-based, real-time incident reporting database.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Administrator to assist the nation's fire services for activities and equipment to improve fire prevention and control in the wildland-urban interface. Directs the Administrator to make available to the public information regarding USFA funded activities, to advance new knowledge and best practices in firefighting through a regularly updated Internet database.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Administrator to: (1) promote adoption by fire services of voluntary national consensus standards for firefighter health and safety; and (2) develop and provide information and training to relevant federal departments on the importance of clearing biomass in wildland areas of federal lands to promote firefighter safety.  \n    Section\n    8\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Administrator to provide liaison to assure coordination of fire service-based EMS programs. Authorizes the Administrator to conduct studies of the operations and management aspects of fire service-based EMS and coordination between EMS and fire services, including the optimum protocols for on-scene care, the allocation of resources, and the training requirements for fire service-based EMS.  \n    Section\n    10\n     - \n    \n    Expresses support for USFA recommendations regarding the adoption of fire sprinklers in commercial buildings and educational programs to raise awareness of the importance of installing fire sprinklers in residential buildings."