"2/24/1999--Passed House amended. Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999 - Directs each Federal agency to develop and implement a plan that, among other things, streamlines and simplifies the application, administrative, and reporting procedures for Federal financial assistance programs administered by the agency. Requires each agency to publish the plan in the Federal Register, receive public comment, and hold public forums on the plan. Requires the designated lead agency official to consult with the representatives of non-Federal entities during plan development and implementation. Requires each Federal agency to submit the plan developed to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Congress and report annually thereafter on plan implementation and agency performance in meeting goals and objectives. Directs the Department of Housing and Urban Development to develop and implement a plan that establishes policies and procedures regarding an applicant who has submitted an application for Federal financial assistance to the agency that includes a technical deficiency under which the applicant: (1) shall be notified of the deficiency and be permitted to submit information to correct the deficiency within seven days; and (2) shall continue to be considered by the agency during such period and after such period if the deficiency is corrected. Requires the Director to direct, coordinate and assist Federal agencies in establishing: (1) a common application or set of common applications wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for Federal financial assistance from multiple Federal programs; (2) a common system wherein a non-Federal entity can apply for, manage, and report on the use of funding from multiple Federal programs; (3) uniform administrative rules for Federal financial assistance programs across different agencies; and (4) an interagency process for addressing ways to streamline and simplify Federal financial assistance administrative procedures and reporting requirements for non-Federal entities, ways to improve interagency and intergovernmental coordination of information collection and data sharing pertaining to Federal financial assistance programs, and ways to improve the timeliness, completeness, and quality of information received from financial assistance recipients. Permits the Director to: (1) designate a lead agency to assist him or her and use interagency working groups to assist in carrying out such responsibilities; and (2) exempt any Federal agency or Federal financial assistance program from the requirements of this Act if the Director determines that the agency does not have a significant number of Federal financial assistance programs. Requires the Director to maintain a list of exempted agencies available to the public through OMB's Internet site. Requires the Director to submit to the Congress a report containing recommendations for changes in law to improve the effectiveness and performance of Federal financial assistance programs. Requires the Director or lead agency to contract with the National Academy of Public Administration to evaluate the effectiveness of this Act. Requires the evaluation to be submitted to the lead agency, the Director, and the Congress. Requires the evaluation to be performed with input from State, local, and tribal governments and nonprofit organizations. Terminates this Act five years after enactment. Expresses the sense of the Congress that Federal agencies, in providing Federal financial assistance for economic development, should focus on communities with high poverty and unemployment rates."