"10/5/2000--Passed Senate amended. Ivanpah Valley Airport Public Lands Transfer Act - Directs the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to convey to Clark County, Nevada, certain Federal public lands in Ivanpah Valley, Nevada, for the development of an airport facility and related infrastructure. Prohibits such conveyance from being made until: (1) the County has conducted an airspace assessment, using the airspace management plan required by this Act, to identify any potential adverse effects on access to the Las Vegas basin under visual flight rules that would result from the construction and operation of a commercial or primary airport, or both, on the land to be conveyed; (2) the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certifies to the Secretary that such assessment is thorough and that alternatives have been developed to address each adverse effect identified in such assessment; and (3) the County has entered into an agreement with the Secretary to retain ownership of Jean Airport, located at Jean, Nevada, and to maintain and operate such Airport for general aviation purposes. Requires the Secretary to deposit payments received from the County as consideration for the conveyance of each parcel into the special account established under the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act. Allows such funds to be expended only for the acquisition of private inholdings in the Mojave National Preserve and for the protection and management of the petroglyph resources in the County. Prohibits interest earned on amounts deposited from being invested and expended as required under such Act. Prohibits the Secretary from expending funds pursuant to this Act until: (1) the provisions of this Act regarding all actions required under the National Environmental Policy Act with respect to initial planning and construction have been completed; and (2) a final Record of Decision pursuant to such Act has been issued which permits development of an airport at the Ivanpah site. Requires such payments to be refunded to the County and such lands to revert to the United States if the FAA and the County determine that an airport should not be constructed on the conveyed lands. Withdraws the conveyed lands from mineral entry under the Mining Law of 1872 and the Mineral Leasing Act. Directs the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary, prior to such conveyance, to develop an airspace management plan for the Ivanpah Valley Airport that shall, without adversely impacting safety considerations, restrict aircraft arrivals and departures over the Mojave Desert Preserve in California. Requires: (1) prior to construction of an airport facility on the conveyed lands, all actions required under the National Environmental Policy Act with respect to initial planning and construction to be completed by the Secretary of Transportation and the Secretary as joint lead agencies; and (2) any such actions to specifically address any impacts on the purposes for which the Mojave National Preserve was created."