"4/4/2000--Passed House amended. Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network Amendments of 2000 - Declares that Congress: (1) recognizes the importance of families pledging to each other to share their lives as organ and tissue donors, and acknowledges the importance of discussing organ and tissue donation as a family; (2) recognizes the generous contribution made by each living individual who has donated an organ to save a life; and (3) acknowledges the advances in medical technology that have enabled organ transplantation with organs donated by living individuals to become a viable treatment option for an increasing number of patients. \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Public Health Service Act to revise and extend programs relating to organ procurement and transplantation, among other changes requiring the Organ Procurement and Transportation Network to: (1) carry out studies and demonstration projects to improve procedures for organ procurement and allocation; and (2) develop a peer review system to assure that members of the Network comply with appropriate medical and other specified criteria. Mandates that the Secretary of Health and Human Services establish additional procedures for providing oversight of, and public accountability for, operation of the Network. Repeals the mandate for a scientific registry of organ recipients. Provides for planning grants to organizations other than qualified organ procurement organizations for the purpose of increasing the supply of transplantable organs. Reassigns from the Secretary to the Network the responsibility for an annual report to specified congressional committees on the scientific and clinical status of organ transplantation.  \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Requires a qualified organ procurement organization to be certified or recertified by the Secretary as meeting the performance standards to be such an organization through a process which: (1) granted certification or recertification within the previous four years with such certification in effect as of October 1, 1999, and remaining in effect through the earlier of January 1, 2002, or the date that recertification is completed; or (2) is defined through regulations promulgated by the Secretary by January 1, 2002. Requires such regulations to: (1) require recertifications of qualified organ procurement organizations at most once every four years; (2) rely on performance measures based on empirical evidence of organ donor potential and other related factors in each organization service area; (3) provide for the filing and approval of a corrective action plan by an organization that fails to meet the performance standards, and a grace period of at least three years during which such organization can implement the corrective action plan without risk of decertification; and (4) provide for an organization to appeal a decertification to the Secretary on substantive and procedural grounds.  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary to award grants or contracts for: (1) payment of travel and subsistence expenses incurred toward living organ donation; (2) organ donation studies and demonstration projects; and (3) State outreach activities and programs designed to increase the number of organ donors within the State. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to carry out a program to educate the public about organ donation. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 through 2005 for both the Network itself and for the purpose of increasing organ donation and procurement via the Network.  \n    Section\n    8\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to study and report to Congress on: (1) the costs of immunosuppressive drugs provided to children pursuant to organ transplants; and (2) the extent to which health plans and insurance cover such costs.  \n    Section\n    9\n     - \n    \n    Deems to have no force or legal effect the final rule relating to Organ Procurement and Transportation that was promulgated by the Secretary and published in the Federal Register on April 2, 1998, and amended on October 20, 1999."