"11/18/1999--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Division A: District of Columbia Appropriations - Title I: Fiscal Year 2000 Appropriations - Title II: Tax Reduction - Division B \n    Division\n    A\n     - \n    District of Columbia Appropriations\n    \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 2000 Appropriations\n    District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2000 - Makes appropriations for the District of Columbia for FY 2000, including amounts for the Federal payments: (1) for District of Columbia Resident Tuition Support; (2) for incentives for adoption of children; (3) to the Citizens Complaint Review Board; (4) to the Department of Human Services; (5) to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee Operations; (6) to the District of Columbia Courts; (7) for Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts; (9) to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia; (10) to the Children's National Medical Center; (11) for the Metropolitan Police Department; and (12) to the General Services Administration. Appropriates specified sums out of the District's general fund (and other funds, in some cases) for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) the public education system; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) receivership programs; (8) workforce investments; (9) a reserve to be established by the Chief Financial Officer of the District and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (Authority); (10) the Authority itself; (11) repayment of certain loans and interest; (12) repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt; (13) payment of interest on short-term borrowing; (14) lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of Participation involving the land site underlying the building located at One Judiciary Square; and (15) optical and dental insurance payments. Directs the Chief Financial Officer to: (1) finance projects totaling $20 million in local funds (Productivity Bank) that result in cost savings or additional revenues by an amount equal to such financing; (2) make reductions totaling $20 million in local funds to be allocated to projects funded through the Productivity Bank that produce such cost savings or additional revenues; and (3) make reductions of specified amounts for general supply schedule savings and for management reform savings, in local funds to one or more of the appropriation headings in this Act. Requires quarterly reports by the Mayor on such financial activities to specified congressional committees. Appropriates specified sums for: (1) the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct; (2) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; (3) the Sports and Entertainment Commission; (4) the D.C. Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation; (5) the D.C. Retirement Board; (6) the Correctional Industries Fund; (7) the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund; and (8) capital outlay (including rescissions). Sets forth authorizations as well as limitations and prohibitions on the uses of appropriations under this Act, and directives to the Mayor, the Council, and the Board of Education identical with or similar to those in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999. \n    Section\n    130\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the expenditure of funds appropriated under this Act for abortions except where the mother's life would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in cases of rape or incest.  \n    Section\n    131\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available by this Act to implement or enforce: (1) the District of Columbia Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 (also known as the District Domestic Partner Act); or (2) any system of registration of unmarried, cohabiting couples for purposes of extending them benefits on the same basis as such benefits are extended to legally married couples.  \n    Section\n    142\n     - \n    \n    Requires recipients of funds under this Act to comply with the Buy American Act. Expresses the sense of Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, such funds should be used to purchase only American-made equipment and products. Declares a person ineligible to receive any contract made with funds provided under this Act if the person has been judicially determined to have intentionally affixed a \"Made in America\" label to a product that is not U.S.-made.  \n    Section\n    147\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act to transfer or confine inmates classified above the medium security level, as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons classification instrument, to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center located in Youngstown, Ohio.  \n    Section\n    149\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Chief Financial Officer, by November 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar days after the enactment of this Act, to submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, and the Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for all District government agencies for such fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal-services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.  \n    Section\n    150\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act for: (1) any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug; or (2) rental payments under a lease for the use of real property by the District government, or to enter a lease, or purchase or manage real property for the District, unless specified conditions are met.  \n    Section\n    152\n     - \n    \n    Terminates such conditioned prohibition on the use of funds contained in this Act to lease, purchase, or manage real property for the District if the District enacts legislation to reform the practices and procedures governing such activities and disposition of its surplus real property.  \n    Section\n    153\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Student Loan Marketing Association Reorganization Act of 1996 to provide funding for public charter school construction and repair in the District. Sets aside a specified amount for use as a credit enhancement fund for such schools.  \n    Section\n    154\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Mayor, the Authority, and the Superintendent of Schools to implement a process to dispose of excess public school real property within 90 days of the enactment of this Act.  \n    Section\n    155\n     - \n    \n    Amends the District of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995 to: (1) extend the Act indefinitely; and (2) grant sibling preference to applicants seeking enrollment in public charter schools in the District.  \n    Section\n    157\n     - \n    \n    Transfers from the Authority to the District a specified sum for: (1) severance payments to individuals separated from employment during FY 2000; (2) expanded contracting authority of the Mayor; and (3) the implementation of a system of managed competition among public and private providers of goods and services by and on behalf of the District.  \n    Section\n    158\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Authority, working with the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Director of the National Park Service, to carry out a project to complete all design requirements and all requirements for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act for construction of expanded lane capacity for the Fourteenth Street Bridge. Transfers a specified limited amount to the Authority from the District's dedicated highway fund for the project.  \n    Section\n    159\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Mayor to carry out, through the Army Corps of Engineers, an Anacostia River environmental cleanup program.  \n    Section\n    160\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act of 1996 (the Act) to: (1) prohibit payment of administrative costs from the Crime Victims Compensation Fund; and (2) limit the use of such Fund to compensation and attorneys' fees awarded under the Act. Provides that: (1) the Fund shall be maintained as a separate Fund in the Treasury; (2) all amounts deposited to the credit of the Fund are appropriated without fiscal year limitation to make payments as authorized under the Act; and (3) the Fund shall also consist of any other fines, fees, penalties, or assessments that the Court determines necessary to carry out the purposes of the Fund. Transfers any unobligated balance existing in the Fund in excess of $250,000 as of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with FY 2000) to miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury within 30 days after the end of the fiscal year. Ratifies any payments made from or deposits made to the Fund on or after April 9, 1997, to the extent such payments and deposits are authorized under the Act.  \n    Section\n    161\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act 60 days after its enactment to pay the salary of any chief financial officer of any District government office who has not filed a certification with the Mayor and the Chief Financial Officer of the District that the officer understands the duties and restrictions applicable as a result of this Act or its amendments.  \n    Section\n    162\n     - \n    \n    Requires the proposed FY 2001 budget of the District government to specify potential adjustments that might become necessary in the event that the management savings achieved by the District during the year do not meet the level of management savings projected.  \n    Section\n    163\n     - \n    \n    Requires any document showing the budget for a District government office that contains specified labels categorizing activities to include descriptions of the types of activities covered and a detailed breakdown of the amount allocated for each one.  \n    Section\n    164\n     - \n    \n    Provides that, in using the funds made available for improvements to specified Federal properties in the Southwest Waterfront of the District, any District government entity may place orders for engineering and construction and related services with the Chief of Engineers of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on a reimbursable and, if applicable, contractual basis. Transfers to the Mayor from the Authority a specified amount from the escrow account held by the Authority for the District's infrastructure needs to be used by the Mayor for such improvements. Requires the Mayor to submit quarterly reports to specified congressional committees on the status of the improvements until they are completed.  \n    Section\n    165\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of Congress that the District should not impose or take into consideration any height, square footage, set-back, or other construction or zoning requirements in authorizing the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for a project of the American National Red Cross at 2025 E Street Northwest, Washington, D.C., because this project is subject to approval of the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.  \n    Section\n    166\n     - \n    \n    Amends the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (the Act) to permit the District of Columbia Offender Supervision, Defender, and Courts Services Agency to carry out sex offender registration functions in the District. Authorizes the Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee appointed under the Act to exercise, during the Agency's transition to full operation, the powers and functions of the Agency relating to sex offender registration, but only upon the Trustee's certification that the Trustee is able to assume such powers and functions. Vests such authority in the Metropolitan Police Department until the Trustee makes such certification.  \n    Section\n    167\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act or any tetrahydrocannabinols (THC) derivative. Provides that the Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative of 1998, also known as Initiative 59, approved by the electors of the District on November 3, 1998, shall not take effect.  \n    Section\n    168\n     - \n    \n    Transfers to the District from the Authority a specified amount for the Mayor to provide offsets against local taxes for a commercial revitalization program to be available in enterprise zones and low and moderate income areas in the District, provided that the Mayor uses Federal commercial revitalization proposals introduced in Congress as a guideline.  \n    Section\n    169\n     - \n    \n    Amends the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to transfer to the Mayor the Authority's duty with respect to annually developing and submitting to specified congressional committees a performance accountability plan for the District government, and annually reporting to such committees on the performance of the government's activities.  \n    Section\n    170\n     - \n    \n    Declares the sense of Congress that, in considering the District of Columbia's FY 2001 budget, the Congress will take into consideration progress or lack of progress in addressing specified issues, including crime, access to drug abuse treatment, management of parolees and pretrial violent offenders, education, improvement in basic city services, application for and management of Federal grants, and indicators of child well-being.  \n    Section\n    171\n     - \n    \n    Urges the Mayor, before using Federal Medicaid payments to Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) to serve a small number of childless adults, to consider the recommendations of the Health Care Development Commission.  \n    Section\n    172\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on the law enforcement, court, prison, probation, parole, and other components of the criminal justice system of the District of Columbia in order to identify the components most in need of additional resources, including financial, personal, and management resources.  \n    Section\n    173\n     - \n    \n    Declares that nothing in this Act bars the District of Columbia Corporation Counsel from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the District government regarding such lawsuits.  \n    Section\n    174\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to implement the notice of decision approved by the National Capital Regional Director, dated April 7, 1999, including issuance of right-of-way permits at market rates within seven days after enactment of this Act, subject to judicial review. Declares that any Federal agency receiving an application to locate a wireless communications antenna on Federal property in the District of Columbia or surrounding area over which the Federal agency exercises control shall take final action on the application, including action on the issuance of right-of-way permits at market rates.  \n    Section\n    175\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (the Act) to provide that out of funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for Community Development block grants a specified amount shall be available as a grant for the Special Olympics in Anchorage, Alaska, to develop the Ben Boeke Arena and Hilltop Ski Area. Increases the amount made available for grants for the Economic Development Initiative for making individual grants for targeted economic investments. Deems the statement of the managers of the committee of conference accompanying the Act to be amended under the heading \"Community Development Block Grants\" to include specified targeted economic development initiatives. Makes specified funds made available for Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to redevelop the Sun Co. - LTV Steel Site in Hazelwood, Pennsylvania, available to the Department of Economic Development in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the development of a technology based project in the county. Amends the Act and the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to extend the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development's authority through FY 2000 with respect to mortgage risk-sharing agreements and housing finance agency pilot demonstration programs. Amends the Act and the Public and Assisted Housing Drug Elimination Act of 1990 to revise the definition of \"federally-assisted low-income housing\" to exclude housing assisted under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act. Provides that such amendment shall be construed to have taken effect on October 21, 1998. Amends the statement of the managers of the committee of conference accompanying the Act with respect to specified Community Development Block Grant funds earmarked for the City of Citrus Heights, California, for the revitalization of a specified mall to correct its name to read \"Sunrise Marketplace\". Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 to extend through FY 2001 appropriations for operating expenses of National and Community Service Programs of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Deems amended the statement of the managers of the committee of conference accompanying the Act with respect to specified targeted economic development initiatives for Community Development Block Grants to reduce by $100,000 the amount available to the University of Maryland in College Park, Maryland, for renovation of the James McGregor Burns Academy of Leadership, and to earmark such amount for St. Mary's College in Maryland for the St. Mary's River Project.  \n    Section\n    176\n     - \n    \n    Amends the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999 with respect to the Federal Payment to the Georgetown Waterfront Park Fund to provide that funds shall remain available until expended. Provides that such amendment shall take effect as if included in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Tax Reduction\n    Commends the District of Columbia for its action to reduce taxes. Ratifies the Service Improvement and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Support Act of 1999. DIVISION B - Enacts into law the following bills as introduced on November 17, 1999: (1) H.R. 3421; (2) H.R. 3422; (3) H.R. 3423; (4) H.R. 3424; (5) H.R. 3425; (6) H.R. 3426; (7) H.R. 3427 (with one change noted below); (9) H.R. 3428; and (10) S. 1948. \n    Section\n    1000\n     - \n    \n    Deems title IX, Subtitle A (United Nations Reform Act of 1999) of H.R. 3427 to be amended, with respect to the authorization of appropriations for payment of United Nations assessments, to require advance certification to the appropriate congressional committees for obligation and expenditure: (1) beginning on or after December 15, 1999, of funds made available for FY 1998 regular and peacekeeping assessments; and (2) of funds made available for FY 1999 and 2000 payments of certain arrearages.  \n    Section\n    1001\n     - \n    \n    Declares that legislation incorporated by reference in this division (other than H.R. 3421, H.R. 3422, H.R. 3423, or H.R. 3424) that would have been estimated by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as changing direct spending or receipts under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) were it included in an Act other than an appropriations Act shall be treated as direct spending or receipts legislation under pay-as-you-go provisions of such Act. Prohibits the OMB Director, however, from making any estimates of changes in direct spending outlays and receipts for any fiscal year resulting from enactment of such legislation. Requires the OMB Director, on January 3, 2000, to change to zero any balances of direct spending and receipts legislation for any fiscal year under Gramm-Rudman-Hollings pay-as-you-go provisions."