"10/19/2000--Senate agreed to House amendment with amendment. TABLE OF CONTENTS: -Title I: Conveyance of National Forest System Lands for Educational Purposes - Title II: Ala Kahakai National Historic Trai -l Title III: Additions to National Parks System Areas - Title IV: Pecos National Historical Park Land Exchange - Title V: New Area Studies - Title VI: Peopling of America Theme Study - Title: VII: Big Horn and Washakie Counties, Wyoming Land Conveyance - Title VIII: Coal Acreage Limitations - Title IX: Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Conveyance of National Forest System Lands for Educational Purposes\n    Education Land Grant Act - Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture, upon application, to convey National Forest System (NFS) lands to a public school district for educational purposes if, among other things: (1) such district uses the conveyed land for a public or publicly funded elementary or secondary school and related purposes; (2) the conveyance will serve the public interest; (3) the land conveyed is not otherwise needed for NFS purposes; and (4) the total acreage (limited to 80) does not exceed the amount reasonably necessary for the proposed use. States that the latter limitation shall not be construed to preclude an entity from submitting a subsequent application for an additional land conveyance if it can demonstrate the need. Provides a reversionary interest if an entity attempts to transfer title to the land conveyed for an alternate use.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Ala Kahakai National Historic Trail\n    Ala Kahakai National Historic Trail Act - Amends the National Trails System Act to designate the Ala Kahakai National Historic Trail in Hawaii.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Additions to National Park System Areas\n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary, for purposes of this Act) to acquire specified land known as Dillonwood for addition to Sequoia National Park, California. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to remove such land from the boundaries of the Sequoia National Forest. \n    Section\n    302\n     - \n    \n    Amends Federal law governing the Gulf Islands National Seashore to encompass within it a specified parcel of land on Cat Island, Mississippi. Grants the Secretary acquisition authority with respect to specified lands, including submerged lands and an easement. Declares that the State of Mississippi shall not be required to convey to the Secretary any right, title, or interest in or to the buffer zone as a condition for the establishment of such zone. Retains State of Mississippi regulatory authority over maritime activities, including nonseashore fishing activities in areas outside the designated seashore boundary (including the buffer zone). Authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with: (1) the State of Mississippi for law enforcement and resource management purposes; and (2) the owners of the \"Boddie Family Tract.\" Authorizes appropriations for land acquisition.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Pecos National Historical Land Exchange\n    Pecos National Historical Park Land Exchange Act of 2000 - Provides for a land exchange between private landowners, the Secretary, and the Secretary of Agriculture under which certain lands will be added to the Pecos National Historical Park in New Mexico in exchange for certain lands (and a related easement) within the Santa Fe National Forest in New Mexico. Requires the equalization of values of lands exchanged.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    New Area Studies\n    Vicksburg Campaign Trail Battlefields Preservation Act of 2000 - Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to study and report to specified congressional committees on what measures should be taken to preserve certain Civil War battlefields along the Vicksburg Campaign Trail. Authorizes appropriations. \n    Section\n    502\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary, acting through such Director, to conduct a special resource study and report to specified congressional committees on the national significance of the Miami Circle (an ancient Tequesta Indian ceremonial site) as well as the feasibility and suitability of including it in Biscayne National Park in Florida. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    503\n     - \n    \n    Gaylord Nelson Apostle Islands Stewardship Act of 2000 - Requires the Secretary, acting through such Director, to: (1) evaluate lands within the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore in Wisconsin for inclusion in the National Wilderness System; and (2) take appropriate action to protect the lighthouse structures at Raspberry Lighthouse and Outer Island Lighthouse on the Lakeshore. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    504\n     - \n    \n    Harriet Tubman Special Resource Study Act - Requires the Secretary to conduct a special resource study and report to Congress on the national significance, long-term preservation, and public use of the following sites in Auburn, New York, and elsewhere associated with Harriet Tubman: (1) Harriet Tubman's birthplace, located on Greenbrier Road, Dorchester County, Maryland; (2) Bazel Church, located south of Greenbrier Road in Cambridge, Maryland; (3) Harriet Tubman's home, located at 182 South Street; (4) the Harriet Tubman Home for the Aged, located at 180 South Street; (5) the Thompson Memorial A.M.E. Zion Church, located at 33 Parker Street; (6) Harriet Tubman's grave at Fort Hill Cemetery, located at 19 Fort Street; and (7) William Henry Seward's home, located at 33 South Street. Requires inclusion in the study of the Secretary's analysis and recommendations regarding the suitability and feasibility of: (1) designating one or more of the sites as units of the NPS; and (2) establishing a national heritage corridor that incorporates the above sites and any other sites associated with Harriet Tubman.  \n    Section\n    505\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Development Act to extend through January 8, 2011, the authority of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Commission.  \n    Section\n    506\n     - \n    \n    Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area Study Act of 2000 - Requires the Secretary to study and report to specified congressional committees on the suitability and feasibility of establishing an Upper Housatonic Valley National Heritage Area in Connecticut and Massachusetts. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    507\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to conduct and submit to specified congressional committees a resource study of the 600-mile route through Connecticut, Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Virginia used by George Washington and General Jean Baptiste Donatien de Vimeur, comte de Rochambeau, during the Revolutionary War.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Peopling of America Theme Study\n    Peopling of America Theme Study Act - Directs the Secretary to prepare and submit to Congress a national historic landmark theme study on the peopling of America. Requires the study to: (1) identify those things which illustrate and commemorate key events or decisions affecting the peopling of America and which can provide a basis for preserving and interpreting such peopling; (2) recommend for designation new national historic landmarks; and (3) identify appropriate sites within the NPS at which the peopling of America may be interpreted. Requires the Secretary, on the basis of the study, to recommend to Congress sites for which studies for potential inclusion in the NPS should be authorized. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into cooperative arrangements under this title. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Big Horn and Washakie Counties, Wyoming Land Conveyance\n    Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), to convey specified portions of Federal land in Big Horn and Washakie County, Wyoming, to the Westside Irrigation District, Wyoming. Requires sale proceeds to be available to the Secretary for the acquisition of land and interests in the Worland District of BLM in Wyoming that will benefit public recreation, public access, fish and wildlife habitat, or cultural resources.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Coal Acreage Limitations\n    Coal Market Competition Act of 2000 - Amends the Mineral Leasing Act to increase: (1) from 46,080 to 75,000 the maximum aggregate acreage of Federal coal leases an entity may hold in any one State; and (2) from 100,000 to 150,000 the maximum aggregate acreage of Federal coal leases an entity may hold altogether within the United States.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area\n    Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area Act of 2000 - Establishes in Alaska the Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area. Requires the Area to be managed by the Board of Directors of the Kenai Mountains-Turnagain Arm National Heritage Area Commission. Requires the Secretary to enter into a cooperative agreement with such entity to develop a management plan for the Area. Authorizes appropriations. Provides a 25 percent matching funds requirement. Prohibits the Secretary from making any grant or providing any assistance under this title beyond 15 years after the Secretary and the management entity complete the cooperative agreement."