"11/18/1999--Passed Senate amended. Extends the law making continuing appropriations for FY 2000 through November 23, 1999. Extends, until November 23, 1999, a certain provision of law that allows fewer than three members of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States to constitute a quorum. \n    Section\n    2\n     - \n    \n    Requires permitting authorities, in rendering permit decisions for discharges of excess spoil and coal mine waste into U.S. waters from surface coal mining and reclamation operations, to apply Federal Water Pollution Control Act provisions regarding permits for dredged and fill material and implementing regulations regarding guidelines for specification of disposal sites for dredged or fill material set forth in the Code of Federal Regulations. Deems the permitted disposal of spoil or waste meeting the requirements of such guidelines to satisfy the criteria for granting a variance under Federal regulations regarding surface or underground mining near streams and applicable State regulations. Makes Federal and State water quality standards inapplicable to the portions of waters filled by discharges permitted pursuant to the permitting procedures under this Act. Provides that the procedures specified in this section shall remain in effect until the later of: (1) the date that is two years after this Act's enactment; or (2) the effective date of regulations promulgated to implement recommendations made as a result of the environmental impact statement relating to the permitting process.  \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Applies the following prohibition in lieu of specified hardrock mining provisions of H.R. 3423 (106th Congress), a bill incorporated into H.R. 3194 (Public Law 106-113). Bars the use of funds made available under any Act by the Secretary of the Interior to promulgate final regulations to revise those regarding surface management except those that are consistent with: (1) the regulatory gap findings identified in the report of the National Research Council entitled \"Hardrock Mining on Federal Lands\"; and (2) statutory authorities in effect as of this Act's enactment date.  \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Applies the following prohibition in lieu of specified provisions of H.R. 3423 (106th Congress) regarding the millsites opinion. Bars the expenditure of funds by the Secretaries of the Interior or Agriculture, for FY 2000 and 2001, to limit the number or acreage of millsites based on the ratio between the number or acreage of millsites and those of associated lode or placer claims with respect to: (1) certain patent applications excluded from prohibitions on the issuance of such applications under the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1995; (2) operations or property for which a plan of operations has been approved before this Act's enactment date; or (3) operations or property for which a plan of operations, or amendment to an existing plan, was submitted to the Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service before May 21, 1999.  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to reduce the amount of any principal due on a loan made to a marketing association incorporated in the State of North Carolina for the 1999 crop of an agricultural commodity by at least 75 percent if the association suffered losses of the commodity in a county with respect to which: (1) a natural disaster was declared by the Secretary for losses due to Hurricane Dennis, Floyd, or Irene; or (2) a major disaster or emergency was declared by the President for losses due to such hurricanes under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. Directs the Secretary, if a grade quality for the 1999 crop of a commodity marketed by such an association is assigned that is below the base quality of the commodity, to compensate the association for losses incurred as a result of the reduction in grade quality. Makes a limited amount of Commodity Credit Corporation resources available to carry out this section.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary, in administering $50 million in emergency supplemental funding for the Emergency Conservation Program, to give priority to the repair of structures essential to the operation of the farm."