"7/21/2000--Reported to Senate amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Title I: Department of Justice - Title II: Department of Commerce and Related Agencies - Title III: The Judiciary - Title IV: Department of State and Related Agency - Title V: Related Agencies - Title VI: General Provisions - Title VII: Rescissions - Title VIII: Southwest Border Initiative Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for FY 2001 for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the judiciary, and related agencies. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Justice\n    Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for the Department of Justice for: (1) general administration; (2) a Joint Automated Booking System; (3) conversion to narrowband communications; (4) counterterrorism activities; (5) administration of pardon and clemency petitions and immigration-related activities; (6) the Office of Inspector General; (7) the U.S. Parole Commission; (8) legal activities; (9) antitrust activities; (10) the Offices of U.S. Attorneys; (11) the U.S. Trustee Program; (12) the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission; (13) the U.S. Marshals Service, including amounts for the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System and Federal prisoner detention; (14) fees and expenses of witnesses; (15) the Community Relations Service; (16) certain uses of the Assets Forfeiture Fund; (17) administrative expenses related to the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act; (18) the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund; (19) interagency law enforcement with respect to organized crime drug trafficking; (20) the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); (21) construction for specified agencies; (22) the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); (23) the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS); (24) the Federal prison system, including an amount for buildings and facilities; (25) Office of Justice programs; (26) State and local law enforcement assistance; (27) the Executive Office for Weed and Seed; (28) community oriented policing services; (29) juvenile justice programs; and (30) public safety officers' benefits. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, such funds. \n    Section\n    103\n     - \n    \n    Repeals provisions of law that require the Attorney General to develop: (1) an automated entry-exit control system; and (2) a program to collect information relating to nonimmigrant foreign students and other exchange program participants.  \n    Section\n    104\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to eliminate the restriction that only aliens with preference petitions or labor certifications filed by January 14, 1998, are eligible to adjust to permanent resident status without leaving the United States if they entered without inspection or fall within one of other specified classes (including aliens accepting unauthorized employment and aliens not maintaining legal nonimmigrant status).  \n    Section\n    109\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Department of Justice and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994 to authorize the use of the Working Capital Fund to pay personnel, administrative, and litigation expenses of civil debt litigation activities.  \n    Section\n    110\n     - \n    \n    Amends Federal law to make amounts in the Crime Victims Fund available to the FBI for improving services for the benefit of crime victims in the Federal criminal justice system.  \n    Section\n    112\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the use of funds appropriated to the Federal Prison System for the placement of certain prisoners sentenced under the District of Columbia Code in privately operated prisons.  \n    Section\n    113\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available by any Act to pay premium pay to any Department of Justice attorney.  \n    Section\n    116\n     - \n    \n    Bars the availability of funds for grant programs under this title to any local jail that runs \"pay-to-stay\" programs.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Commerce and Related Agencies\n    Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for the Department of Commerce for: (1) the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative; (2) the International Trade Commission; (3) the International Trade Administration; (4) export administration and national security activities; (5) the Economic Development Administration; (6) minority business development; (7) economic and statistical analysis programs; (8) the Census Bureau; (9) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration; (10) public telecommunications facilities planning and construction grants; (11) information infrastructure grants; (12) the Patent and Trademark Office; (13) the Under Secretary for Technology-Office of Technology Policy; (14) the National Institute of Standards and Technology, including amounts for the Manufacturing Extension Partnership, the Advanced Technology Program, and construction of new research facilities; (15) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, including amounts for procurement, acquisition, and construction of capital assets; (16) restoration of Pacific salmon populations; (17) the Coastal Zone Management Fund; (18) the Fishermen's Contingency Fund; (19) the Foreign Fishing Observer Fund; (20) the fisheries finance program account; (21) departmental management; and (22) the Office of Inspector General. Rescinds all unobligated balances in the Fisheries Promotional Fund. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    The Judiciary\n    Judiciary Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for: (1) the Supreme Court, including an amount for care of the building and grounds; (2) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; (3) the U.S. Court of International Trade; (4) the courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services; (5) defender services; (6) fees of jurors and commissioners; (7) court security; (8) the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts; (9) the Federal Judicial Center; (10) judicial retirement funds; and (11) the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, such funds. \n    Section\n    304\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes U.S. justices and judges to receive a salary adjustment during FY 2001 and appropriates funds for such adjustments.  \n    Section\n    305\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to exclude honoraria from outside earned income for purposes of limitations on such income. Makes prohibitions on the receipt of honoraria inapplicable to U.S. justices or judges. Provides that any honorarium which might be paid to a U.S. justice or judge but which is paid on behalf of such individual to a charitable organization shall be deemed not to be received by such justice or judge.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Department of State and Related Agency\n    Department of State and Related Agency Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for the Department of State for: (1) administration of foreign affairs, diplomatic and consular programs; (2) the Capital Investment Fund; (3) the Office of Inspector General; (4) educational and cultural exchange programs; (5) representation allowances; (6) protection of foreign missions and officials; (7) embassy security, construction, and maintenance; (8) emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service; (9) the repatriation loans program account; (10) the American Institute in Taiwan; (11) the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund; (12) international organizations, conferences, peacekeeping, arrearage payments, and commissions;(13) the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated; (14) the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program; (15) the East-West Center; and (16) the National Endowment for Democracy. Makes appropriations for the Broadcasting Board of Governors for international broadcasting operations, broadcasting to Cuba, and capital improvements. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title. \n    Section\n    403\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary of State to establish a fee for applications for export licenses for munitions, satellites, and related items on the U.S. Munitions List controlled under the Arms Export Control Act.  \n    Section\n    404\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available in this Act by the Department of State or the Broadcasting Board of Governors to provide assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.  \n    Section\n    405\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds made available in this Act for the United Nations (UN) from being used by the UN for the enforcement of any treaty, resolution, or regulation authorizing the UN to tax any aspect of the Internet.  \n    Section\n    406\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available by any Act for: (1) the operation of a U.S. consulate or diplomatic facility in Jerusalem unless such facility is under the supervision of the U.S. Ambassador to Israel; and (2) the publication of any official Government document which lists countries and their capital cities unless the publication identifies Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.  \n    Section\n    408\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of State, for purposes of registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a U.S. passport of a citizen born in Jerusalem, to record the place of birth as Israel upon request of the citizen.  \n    Section\n    409\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by any Act to allow for the entry into, or withdrawal from warehouse for consumption in the United States of diamonds if the country of origin in which such diamonds were mined (as evidenced by a legible certificate of origin) is Sierra Leone, Liberia, Cote d'Ivoire (Ivory Coast), Burkina Faso, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or Angola, with the exception of diamonds certified by lawful governments of Sierra Leone, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, or Angola.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for the: (1) Maritime Administration for maritime security, operations and training, and the maritime guaranteed loan program; (2) Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; (3) Commission on Civil Rights; (4) Commission on Ocean Policy; (5) Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; (6) Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC); (7) Federal Communications Commission; (8) Federal Maritime Commission; (9) Federal Trade Commission; (10) Legal Services Corporation; (11) Marine Mammal Commission; (12) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC); (13) Small Business Administration, including amounts for non-credit programs, the Office of Inspector General and business and disaster loans; and (14) State Justice Institute. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, such funds.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth limitations on the use of funds under this Act. \n    Section\n    604\n     - \n    \n    Establishes a Deputy Attorney General for Combating Domestic Terrorism within the Department of Justice to be appointed by the President. Requires the Deputy Attorney General, subject to the authority of the Attorney General, to serve as the key Government official responsible for national security policy and coordination for domestic counterterrorism and antiterrorism, State and local preparedness for weapons of mass destruction, and security classifications and clearances within the Department of Justice. Appropriates funds for the Office of the Deputy Attorney General. Transfers all authorities, liabilities, funding, personnel, equipment, and real property associated with the Office of State and Local Domestic Preparedness Support, the National Domestic Preparedness Office, the Executive Office of National Security, and such components related to domestic counterterrorism and antiterrorism activities in the Office of Intelligence Policy and Review and the Criminal Division to the Deputy Attorney General.  \n    Section\n    607\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to revise guidelines governing SEC employee appointment and compensation to include conformance with guidelines covering Federal agency employees under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989.  \n    Section\n    608\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available by this Act to: (1) enforce any EEOC guidelines covering harassment based on religion if such guidelines do not differ from proposed guidelines of October 1, 1993; (2) pay for costs incurred in operating certain diplomatic or consular posts in Vietnam or increasing the number of personnel assigned to such posts until the President makes a specified certification; or (3) provide specified personal comforts in the Federal prison system.  \n    Section\n    615\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available in this Act to issue visas to certain individuals from Haiti, including those involved in specified extrajudicial and political killings.  \n    Section\n    616\n     - \n    \n    Bars funds appropriated under any law from being used for: (1) the implementation of any tax or fee in connection with any criminal background check system that implements requirements under the Federal criminal code in connection with certain restrictions on the transfer of firearms; and (2) any such system that does not result in the destruction of information submitted by persons determined not to be prohibited from owning a firearm.  \n    Section\n    618\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Communications Act of 1934 to provide that any Federal or State law regarding insolvencies or receiverships shall not apply to the Federal Communications Commission or limit the rights or powers of the Commission with respect to: (1) a license or permit issued by the Commission under competitive bidding provisions or a payment made to or a debt owed to the Commission relating to or arising from such a license or permit; (2) an interest of the Commission in property securing such a debt; or (3) an act by the Commission to issue, deny, cancel, or transfer control of such a license or permit. Grants the Commission a first priority security interest in a license or construction permit issued under such provisions. Applies this section retroactively, including to pending cases and proceedings.  \n    Section\n    621\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds appropriated in this Act for purposes of granting immigrant or nonimmigrant visas to residents of countries that the Attorney General has determined deny or unreasonably delay accepting the return of certain deportable aliens.  \n    Section\n    624\n     - \n    \n    Amends the 1999 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act to consider a taking of a Cook Inlet beluga whale under the Marine Mammal Protection Act to be a violation of such Act unless such taking occurs pursuant to a cooperative agreement between the National Marine Fisheries Service and affected Alaska Native organizations. (Currently, such act is considered a violation if it takes place between the enactment date of such Act and October 1, 2000.)  \n    Section\n    625\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 to revise and extend the authorization of appropriations for activities related to the Pacific Salmon Treaty Agreement. Authorizes appropriations to permanently retire commercial salmon permits pursuant to such agreement. Amy Boyer's Law - Amends the Social Security Act to bar the public display of any individual's social security number, or any identifiable derivative of such number, without the expressed consent, electronically or in writing, of such individual. Prohibits obtaining a social security number for purposes of locating or identifying an individual with the intent to physically injure, harm, or use the identity of the individual for illegal purposes. Provides prerequisites for consent, including that the individual be informed of the general purposes for which the number will be utilized and the types of persons to whom the number may be available. Provides that nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the use of social security numbers: (1) required under certain Federal laws; (2) by professional and commercial users who use the information in the normal course of their business or profession so long as a number is not publicly displayed; (3) for law enforcement; or (4) obtained from a public record lawfully acquired from a governmental agency. Authorizes persons aggrieved by violations of this law to bring civil actions in district courts to recover damages. Prohibits actions from being commenced more than three years after the date the violation was or should have been reasonably discovered. Subjects violators to civil money penalties as determined by the Commissioner of Social Security in addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Rescissions\n    Rescinds specified amounts of Department of Justice funds for: (1) the Working Capital Fund; (2) the Assets Forfeiture Fund; (3) the FBI Information Sharing Initiative; and (4) the DEA Drug Diversion Control Fee Account. Rescinds a specified amount of Department of State funds for contributions for international peacekeeping activities.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Southwest Border Initiative\n    Makes additional amounts available for the Department of Justice for: (1) the U.S. Marshals Service for courthouse security equipment and the Justice Prisoner and Alien Transportation System Fund; (2) construction; (3) DEA for a plane, a helicopter, a forensic laboratory, equipment, and upgrades to, and maintenance of, the El Paso Intelligence Center's Information System; and (4) the INS for Border Control equipment. Provides additional funds for the judiciary for: (1) courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services for expansion, relocation, forced move, and build out of existing courthouses; and (2) court security."