"3/30/2000--Passed House amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Title I: Counternarcotics - Chapter 1: Department of Justice - Chapter 2: Department of Defense--Military - Chapter 3: Bilateral Economic Assistance - Chapter 4: Military Construction, Defense-Wide - Chapter 5: General Provisions--This Title - Title II: Peacekeeping Operations in Kosovo and Other National Security Matters - Chapter 1: Department of State - Chapter 2: Department of Defense-- Military - Chapter 3: Bilateral Economic Assistance - Chapter 4: Military Construction, Defense-Wide - Title III: Natural Disaster Assistance and Other Emergency Appropriations - Chapter 1: Department of Agriculture - Chapter 2: Department of Commerce - Chapter 3: Department of Defense-- Civil - Chapter 4: Department of the Interior - Chapter 5: Department of Health and Human Services - Chapter 6: Department of Transportation - Chapter 7: Department of the Treasury - Chapter 8: Department of Housing and Urban Development - Title IV: Supplemental Appropriations and Offsets - Chapter 1: Department of Energy - Chapter 2: Related Agencies - Chapter 3: Department of Labor - Chapter 4: Legislative Branch - Chapter 6 (sic): Department of Veterans Affairs - Chapter 7: Offsets - Chapter 8: Department of Justice - \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions--This Act 2000 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act\n    Makes emergency supplemental appropriations for FY 2000.  \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Counternarcotics\n    Chapter 1: Department of Justice - Makes additional funds available for salaries and expenses of the Drug Enforcement Administration. Requires a specified amount of unobligated balances available for Office of Justice Programs community oriented policing services to be used for policing initiatives to combat methamphetamine production and trafficking. Chapter 2: Department of Defense--Military - Makes additional funds available for defense drug interdiction and counter-drug activities. Makes a limited amount available out of amounts appropriated in this Act for the Department of Defense (DOD) for support for counter-drug activities of the Government of Colombia. Subjects the obligation or expenditure of such funds to a specified certification by the Secretary of Defense under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 with respect to authorized uses, security of equipment, review by U.S. personnel, and certain other related factors. Chapter 3: Bilateral Economic Assistance - Makes funds available to the Department of State for Plan Colombia and Andean regional counternarcotics activities. Requires the Secretary of State, prior to obligation of such funds, to report to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Appropriations Committees on proposed uses of such funds on a country-by-country basis. Chapter 4: Military Construction, Defense-Wide - Provides additional funds for defense-wide military construction. Chapter 5: General Provisions--This Title - Prohibits funds appropriated in this title for military assistance from being available to the Government of Colombia until the President certifies to Congress that: (1) the Colombian Government is implementing a strategy to eliminate Colombia's total coca and opium poppy production by 2005 through a mix of specified measures; (2) the head of the Colombian armed forces has been granted and is exercising authority identical to that held by the head of the Colombian National Police to dismiss personnel for gross violations of human rights; (3) the Colombian armed forces are cooperating with civilian authorities in investigating personnel where credible evidence of such violations exists and in prosecuting and punishing such personnel in civilian courts; and (4) the Colombian armed forces are developing and deploying in their field units a judge advocate general corps to investigate personnel for such violations. Authorizes a presidential waiver of such limitation in extraordinary circumstances. Earmarks funds under this title for: (1) comprehensive law of war training and the development of a judge advocate general corps to investigate Colombian armed forces personnel who are alleged to have committed human rights violations; and (2) enhancement of the U.S. Embassy's capabilities to monitor the use of U.S. assistance for such investigations and the role of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the National Liberation Army (ELN), or the United Colombian Self Defense Organization (AUC) in criminal acts against American citizens and property. \n    Section\n    1502\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available in any Act for the Department of State for issuance of visas to persons who have been credibly alleged to have provided support to the above-named groups. Makes such prohibition inapplicable if entry is necessary for medical reasons or to prosecute such a person in the United States or if the person has cooperated fully with the investigation of crimes committed by individuals associated with such groups. Provides for a waiver of such limitation in the national interest.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Peacekeeping Operations in Kosovo and Other National Security Matters\n    Chapter 1: Department of State - Makes additional funds available for security and maintenance of U.S. missions. Chapter 2: Department of Defense--Military - Provides additional funds for Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, Army Reserve, and Army National Guard operation and maintenance (O&amp;M) as well as defense-wide O&amp;M for assistance to Vieques, Puerto Rico. Makes additional funds available for: (1) the Overseas Contingency Operations Transfer Fund; (2) Air Force aircraft procurement; and (3) the Defense Health Program. \n    Section\n    2201\n     - \n    \n    Requires members of the uniformed services (from January 1, 2000, through FY 2001) entitled to a basic allowance for housing for a U.S. military housing area to be paid the allowance at a monthly rate not less than the rate in effect on December 31, 1999, in such area for members serving in the same pay grade and with the same dependency status. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in light of the rates so authorized, to exceed the limitation on the total amount paid for the basic housing allowance in FY 2000 and 2001. Expresses the sense of Congress that members of the armed forces and their dependents should not have to rely on the food stamp program and the President and Congress should take action to ensure that the income level of members of the armed forces is sufficient so that no member meets the income standards of eligibility in effect under such program.  \n    Section\n    2202\n     - \n    \n    Appropriates additional funds for the Defense-Wide Working Capital Fund for price increases resulting from worldwide increases in the price of petroleum.  \n    Section\n    2205\n     - \n    \n    Makes additional appropriations for the Defense Health Program for unanticipated increases in TRICARE contract costs for FY 1998 through 2001.  \n    Section\n    2207\n     - \n    \n    Appropriates additional funds to DOD for: (1) the Basic Allowance for Housing program; (2) defense-wide O&amp;M for the overseas special supplemental food program; (3) military personnel recruiting, advertising, and retention programs; (4) the Defense Health Program; (5) depot-level maintenance and repair; and (6) the support of deployed forces. Chapter 3: Bilateral Economic Assistance - Provides additional funds for: (1) operating expenses of the Agency for International Development; (2) assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States only for assistance for Montenegro and Croatia, assistance to promote democratization in Serbia, and assistance for Kosovo for police activities; (3) international military education and training and foreign military financing for grants to Balkan and southeastern European countries. Chapter 4: Military Construction, Defense-Wide - Appropriates additional funds to DOD to cover incremental O&amp;M costs to family housing.  \n    Section\n    2403\n     - \n    \n    Provides that this section supersedes authority provided in the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000. Incorporates provisions similar to those contained in such Act that authorize the Secretary of the Air Force to carry out a Base Efficiency Project at Brooks Air Force Base in Texas. Bars the Secretary from exercising such authority until he submits a master plan for Base development to the appropriate congressional committees. Subjects the use of the Base Efficiency Project Fund to advance appropriations. Makes additional funds available for Army Reserve military construction to cover the costs arising from the consequences of Hurricane Floyd.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Natural Disaster Assistance and Other Emergency Appropriations\n    Chapter 1: Department of Agriculture - Provides additional funds for: (1) the Office of the Inspector General; (2) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service salaries and expenses; and (3) Farm Service Agency salaries and expenses. Authorizes the use of unobligated balances under the emergency conservation program to be used to repair and reconstruct farm structures and equipment after a finding by the Secretary of Agriculture that: (1) the damage or destruction is the result of Hurricanes Dennis, Floyd, or Irene; and (2) insurance was not available to the grantee or the grantee lacked financial resources to obtain insurance. Makes additional funds available for the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Fund to provide premium discounts to purchasers of crop insurance reinsured by the Corporation (except for catastrophic risk protection coverage). Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to reduce the amount of any principal due on a loan made to a marketing association for the 1999 crop of an agricultural commodity by up to 75 percent if the association suffered losses to the commodity due to Hurricanes Dennis, Floyd, or Irene. Makes additional funds available for the Rural Community Advancement Program for water and waste grants and community facilities grants. Provides additional funds for the Rural Housing Service for: (1) the Rural Housing Insurance Fund Program Account for needs resulting from natural disasters; (2) the rental assistance program for emergency needs resulting from Hurricanes Dennis, Floyd, or Irene; (3) mutual and self-help and rural housing assistance grants and contracts for needs resulting from natural disasters; and (4) the farm labor program account for grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal farm workers for needs resulting from natural disasters. Makes additional funds available for the Rural Utilities Service for the Rural Electrification and Telecommunications Loans Program Account for loans to enable nonprofit cooperatives to purchase a utility to address the high cost of electric power in a service area attributable in part to a hurricane disaster. Provides additional funds for: (1) the Foreign Agricultural Service and General Sales Manager; (2) Food and Drug Administration buildings and facilities; and (3) technical assistance performed by any Department of Agriculture agency in carrying out the Conservation or Wetlands Reserve Programs. Chapter 2: Department of Commerce - Makes additional funds available for: (1) the Economic Development Administration for economic development assistance programs for communities affected by Hurricane Floyd and other recent hurricanes and disasters; (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for operations, research, and facilities to provide disaster assistance; and (3) the Small Business Administration for the disaster loans program account. Chapter 3: Department of Defense--Civil - Provides additional funds for: (1) a Corps of Engineers study and report to Congress on the feasibility of a flood damage reduction project for Princeville, North Carolina; and (2) O&amp;M for emergency expenses due to natural disasters. Provides additional funds for the Department of Energy (DOE) for: (1) the Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and Decommissioning Fund; and (2) atomic energy defense activities. Chapter 4: Department of the Interior - Makes additional funds available for: (1) Bureau of Land Management wildland fire management for emergency rehabilitation and wildfire suppression activities; (2) Fish and Wildlife Service and National Park Service construction activities with respect to facilities and sites damaged by natural disasters; and (3) Geological Survey surveys, investigations, and research to repair or replace stream monitoring equipment and associated facilities damaged by natural disasters. Provides additional funds for Forest Service wildland fire management for emergency rehabilitation, presuppression, and wildfire suppression. Chapter 5: Department of Health and Human Services - Makes additional funds available for the Administration for Children and Families for emergency low income home energy assistance. Chapter 6: Department of Transportation - Provides additional funds for: (1) Coast Guard operating expenses; (2) the Federal-aid highways emergency relief program; and (3) National Transportation Safety Board salaries and expenses for emergency expenses associated with the investigations of the EgyptAir 990 and Alaska Air 261 accidents. \n    Section\n    3601\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds provided in the Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 for operation of the transportation computer center. Chapter 7: Department of the Treasury - Makes additional funds available for the Bureau of the Public Debt for reduction of the public debt. Chapter 8: Department of Housing and Urban Development - Provides additional funds for the HOME investment partnerships program. Makes unobligated amounts available under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 available for certain one-year grants for permanent or rental housing for homeless persons with disabilities. Authorizes an increase in Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) authority to use unobligated balances of disaster relief. Provides additional funds for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration for: (1) human space flight for upgrades to the space shuttle fleet; (2) science, aeronautics and technology for unanticipated program needs; and (3) mission support for augmentation of personnel required to support the space shuttle program.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations and Offsets\n    Chapter 1: Department of Energy - Makes additional funds available for atomic energy weapons activities. Chapter 2: Related Agencies - Provides additional funds for: (1) the Forest Service for State and private forestry to be derived by transfer from unobligated wildland fire management funds for volunteer fire assistance programs in eastern North Carolina; and (2) DOE energy conservation for weatherization assistance grants. Chapter 3: Department of Labor - Amends the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 to authorize funds to be collected by the National Mine Health and Safety Academy for authorized activities under provisions making appropriations for salaries and expenses of the Mine Safety and Health Administration. Provides additional funds for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for the Health Resources and Services Administration to make competitive grants to provide abstinence education to adolescents. Makes FY 2000 Administration for Children and Families refugee and entrant assistance provided under the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 available through FY 2002. Provides additional funds for payments to States for foster care and adoption assistance. \n    Section\n    4302\n     - \n    \n    Repeals a provision of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 that withholds the obligation of specified Department of HHS funds until certain dates. Chapter 4: Legislative Branch - Provides additional funds for: (1) the Capitol Police Board for security enhancements to Library of Congress buildings and grounds; and (2) Capitol buildings and grounds fire safety. Chapter 6 (sic): Department of Veterans Affairs - Makes funds appropriated for the Veterans Health Administration for medical care available for assistance for the 2000 Paralympic Games. Makes additional funds available for the Federal Housing Administration for the general and special risk program account. Provides additional funds for the Office of Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service for reviews and audits of the State Commissions on National and Community Service to be derived by transfer from the unobligated balance in the National Service Trust account for educational awards. Chapter 7: Offsets - Bars the use of funds made available by any Act to pay the salaries and expenses of personnel to carry out provisions of law relating to the Fund for Rural America or the Initiative for Future Agriculture and Food Systems. Rescinds specified amounts of funds made available for: (1) DOE defense environmental restoration and waste management and for implementation of a U.S.-Russian accord for the disposition of excess weapons plutonium; (2) Department of HHS general departmental management; and (3) conversion of Federal information technology systems that were transferred to the Department of Transportation. Chapter 8: Department of Justice - Makes a specified amount of funds appropriated for Department of Justice salaries and expenses under the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 available to the Commission on Online Child Protection.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions This Act\n    Repeals provisions of law that require payment of: (1) basic pay and allowances for members of the Air Force, Army, Marine Corps, and Navy for the pay period ending on September 30, 2000, no earlier than October 1, 2000; and (2) pay of Federal employees that would be payable on September 29 or 30, 2000, for the preceding pay period on October 1, 2000. \n    Section\n    5104\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits a sequestration under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) to eliminate a FY 2000 breach that might be caused by appropriations or other provisions of this Act.  \n    Section\n    5105\n     - \n    \n    Deems funds made available in this Act for intelligence activities to be specifically authorized by Congress for purposes of the National Security Act of 1947.  \n    Section\n    5106\n     - \n    \n    Repeals certain provisions regarding progress payments and payment procedures of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2000.  \n    Section\n    5107\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of FY 2000 funds appropriated to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the relocation of the Technical Training Center from Chattanooga, Tennessee.  \n    Section\n    5108\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of Congress that the Secretary of State should place the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia) on the list of foreign terrorist organizations.  \n    Section\n    5109\n     - \n    \n    Directs the U.S. Comptroller General to conduct a fraud audit of the Department of Education and report audit results to specified congressional committees.  \n    Section\n    5110\n     - \n    \n    Makes additional funds available for grants for rural water and wastewater technical assistance and training programs under the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act.  \n    Section\n    5111\n     - \n    \n    Provides additional funds for carrying out this section. Requires the FEMA Director to establish an office to establish specific criteria of grant recipients and to administer grants under this section. Authorizes competitive grants to: (1) safety organizations that have experience in conducting burn safety programs for conducting or augmenting burn prevention programs; (2) hospitals that serve as regional burn centers to conduct acute burn care research; and (3) governmental and nongovernmental entities to provide after-burn treatment and counseling to burn victims.  \n    Section\n    5112\n     - \n    \n    Makes additional funds available to carry out this section. Requires the FEMA Director to establish a program to award grants to volunteer, paid, and combined departments that provide fire and emergency medical services.  \n    Section\n    5113\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth Buy American provisions.  \n    Section\n    5114\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available by this Act for support of in excess of 300 U.S. military personnel in Colombia."