"9/20/2006--Passed House amended. (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on September 19, 2006. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006 - \n    Section\n    2\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Help America Vote Act of 2002 to prohibit the appropriate state or local election official from providing a federal election ballot to an individual who desires to vote in person unless the individual presents to the official: (1) a government-issued, current, and valid photo identification (ID); or (2) for regularly scheduled federal general elections held in November 2010 and subsequent years, a government-issued, current, and valid photo ID for which the individual was required to provide proof of U.S. citizenship as a condition for issuance of the ID. Requires an individual who does not present such an ID to be permitted to cast a provisional ballot in such an election. Requires such individual, however, to present the required ID within 48 hours after casting the provisional ballot, or the appropriate state or local election official may not determine the individual's eligibility to vote. Requires individuals who vote other than in person in a federal election (for example, by mail) to submit a copy of such a photo ID with a ballot, or the appropriate official may not accept the ballot. Exempts from this requirement the absentee ballot of any eligible overseas military voter absent from the United States by reason of active duty or service.  \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Requires states to establish a program to provide photo IDs in accordance with this Act to individuals who desire to vote but do not otherwise possess a government-issued photo ID. Provides that, if a state charges a fee for providing such a photo ID, the fee: (1) may not exceed the reasonable cost to the state of providing the ID; and (2) may not be charged to any individual who provides an attestation that the individual is unable to afford the fee. Prohibits the use of any such photo IDs for any state or local government program or function other than election administration. Requires the Election Assistance Commission to make payments to states to cover the costs incurred in providing photo IDs to individuals unable to afford the fee that would otherwise be charged. Authorizes appropriations for FY2008 and following fiscal years."