"7/10/2006--Reported to Senate amended. Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2007 - Department of State and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,2007 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of State and Related Agencies\n    Makes FY2007 appropriations for the Department of State (Department) for: (1) administration of foreign affairs and diplomatic and consular programs; (2) the Capital Investment Fund; (3) the Office of Inspector General; (4) educational and cultural exchange programs; (5) representation allowances; (6) protection of foreign missions and officials; (7) U.S. embassy security, construction, and maintenance; (8) emergencies in the diplomatic and consular service; (9) the repatriation loans program account; (10) the American Institute in Taiwan; (11) the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund; (12) international organizations, peacekeeping, and commissions; (13) the International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico; (14) salaries and expenses; (15) plan preparation and construction of authorized projects; (16) the International Joint Commission and the International Boundary Commission, United States and Canada; (17) international fisheries commissions; (18) the Asia Foundation; (19) the Center for Middle Eastern-Western Dialogue Trust Fund; (20) the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships, Incorporated; (21) the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program; (22) the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between East and West; (23) the National Endowment for Democracy; (24) the Broadcasting Board of Governors for international operations, broadcasting to Cuba, and capital improvements; (25) the Commission for Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; (26) the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom; (27) the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; (28) the Congressional-Executive Commission on the People's Republic of China; (29) the HELP Commission; (30) the United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission; (31) the United States Senate-China Interparliamentary Group; and (32) the United States Institute of Peace. \n    Section\n    101\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits any appropriations under this Act from: (1) being used for publicity or propaganda purposes not authorized by Congress; and (2) remaining available beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly provided for.  \n    Section\n    104\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits or limits the reprogramming of funds available for obligation or expenditure in FY2007 for specified program revisions, including contracting out of activities currently performed by federal employees without congressional notification.  \n    Section\n    105\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used for U.N. peacekeeping missions that will involve U.S. Armed Forces personnel under foreign command unless in the U.S. national interest.  \n    Section\n    106\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Department and the Broadcasting Board of Governors to provide the Committees on Appropriations with a quarterly accounting of the cumulative balances of any unobligated funds received during any previous fiscal year.  \n    Section\n    107\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to pay expenses for any U.S. delegation to any specialized U.N. agency, body, or commission that is presided over by a country that has provided support for acts of international terrorism.  \n    Section\n    108\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth restrictions on: (1) office space for federal employees with respect to U.S. diplomatic facility construction, with an exception for Marine Corps use; and (2) transfer authority of Department appropriations.  \n    Section\n    111\n     - \n    \n    Provides that for purposes of birth registration, certification of nationality, or passport issuance of a U.S. citizen born in Jerusalem, the Secretary of State (Secretary) shall, upon request, record the place of birth as Israel.  \n    Section\n    112\n     - \n    \n    States with respect to the Senior Policy Operating Group on Trafficking in Persons that: (1) the Group shall coordinate all policies related to the activities of traffickers and victims of severe forms of trafficking; and (2) no funds shall be expended to perform functions that duplicate Group responsibilities.  \n    Section\n    113\n     - \n    \n    States that funds appropriated under this Act for the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the Department may be obligated and expended notwithstanding specified sections of the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956, the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995, and the National Security Act of 1947.  \n    Section\n    114\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used by the Department or the Broadcasting Board of Governors for assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation.  \n    Section\n    116\n     - \n    \n    Limits the amount of funds under this Act available to the United Nations for international peacekeeping activities.  \n    Section\n    117\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to pay any U.S. contribution to the United Nations if the United Nations implements or imposes any tax on U.S. persons.  \n    Section\n    118\n     - \n    \n    States that: (1) ceilings and earmarks contained in this Act shall not be applicable to funds or authorities appropriated or otherwise made available by any subsequent Act unless so specified; and (2) earmarks or minimum funding requirements contained in any other Act shall not be applicable to funds appropriated by this Act.  \n    Section\n    119\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Omnibus Diplomatic Security and Antiterrorism Act of 1986 to repeal the provision making persons doing business with Libya ineligible for contracts under such Act.  \n    Section\n    120\n     - \n    \n    Establishes in the Department the position of United States Ambassador for ASEAN Affairs.  \n    Section\n    122\n     - \n    \n    States that costs incurred by an agency or department funded under this Act resulting from personnel actions taken in response to funding reductions included in this Act shall be absorbed within such agency's or department's budgetary resources.  \n    Section\n    123\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees of a federal department or agency at any single conference outside the United States unless the Secretary determines that such attendance is in the national interest.  \n    Section\n    125\n     - \n    \n    Provides that up to 12 Senators (the \"United States group\" of the United States Senate-Japan Interparliamentary Group) shall be appointed to meet annually with representatives of the Diet of Japan to discuss of U.S.-Japan relations and common problems. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    126\n     - \n    \n    Amends the the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 to revise the deadline for implementation of the travel document plan from January 1, 2008, to the earlier of June 1, 2009, or three months after the Secretary and the Secretary of Homeland Security make specified certifications under this Act to the Committees on Appropriations. Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2007-  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Export and Investment Assistance\n    Makes FY2007 appropriations for: (1) the Export-Import Bank, including the Office of Inspector General, direct and guaranteed loan and insurance programs, and administrative expenses; (2) Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) credit and insurance programs, including administrative expenses, and for the cost of direct and guaranteed loans, (and authority to undertake programs under title IV of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 in Iraq); and (3) the Trade and Development Agency.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Bilateral Economic Assistance\n    Makes FY 2007 appropriations for: (1) expenses of the President in carrying out certain programs under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; (2) child survival, health, nutrition, and disease programs, including HIV/AIDS and other infectious diseases, and family planning/reproductive health programs; (3) specified development assistance, including programs for education, displaced children, war victims, agriculture, and clean water; (4) international disaster and famine assistance; (5) democracy transition and long-term development of countries in crisis; (6) direct loans and guaranteed loans for micro and small enterprise development and urban programs; (7) the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund; (8) operating expenses of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID); (9) the Capital Investment Fund; (10) USAID Office of Inspector General; (11) Economic Support Fund (ESF) assistance, including amounts for Israel, Lebanon, Cyprus, Iraq, the Central Highlands of Vietnam, Timor-Leste, Sierra Leone, and the U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights in Nepal; (12) assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States, including assistance authority for the Support for East European Democracy (SEED) Act of 1989; (13) assistance for the Independent States of the former Soviet Union; (14) the Inter-American Foundation, the African Development Foundation, the Peace Corps, with a prohibition on fund use for abortions, and the Millennium Challenge Corporation; (15) promotion of democracy and human rights; (16) international narcotics control and law enforcement; (17) counterdrug activities in the Andean region of South America including assistance to Colombia to support a unified campaign against terrorist organizations such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), the National Liberation Army (ELN), and the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia (AUC), and other Colombian programs; (18) migration and refugee assistance; (19) the United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund; (20) nonproliferation, anti-terrorism, demining, and related programs and activities, including U.S. contributions to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty Preparatory Commission; and (21) the Department of the Treasury for international affairs technical assistance activities, and for debt restructuring of concessional loans, guarantees, and credits made to, and the canceling of amounts owed to, the United States by eligible foreign countries.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Military Assistance\n    Makes FY 2007 appropriations for: (1) expanded international military education and training (IMET), including provisions respecting Nepal, Haiti, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Nigeria, and Guatemala; (2) foreign military financing grants, including provisions respecting Israel, Jordan, Sudan, Guatemala, and Haiti; and (3) international peacekeeping operations.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Multilateral Economic Assistance\n    Makes FY 2007 appropriations for the U.S. contribution to: (1) the Global Environment Facility of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank); (2) the International Development Association (IDA); (3) the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral Investment Fund; (4) the Asian Development Fund; (5) the African Development Bank; (6) the African Development Fund; (7) the International Fund for Agricultural Development; and (8) other international programs, excluding IAEA. Sets forth limitations on callable capital subscriptions with respect to the African Development Bank. \n    Section\n    501\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits payments to any international financial institution (as defined by this Act) while the U.S. executive director to the institution is compensated at a rate in excess of that for Level IV of the Executive Schedule, or any alternate U.S. director is compensated at a rate in excess of that for Level V of such Schedule.  \n    Section\n    502\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to pay any voluntary U.S. contribution to the United Nations if the United Nations implements or imposes any tax on U.S. persons.  \n    Section\n    503\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth limits on the use of appropriations, including specified maximums for official residence expenses, entertainment expenses, and representation allowances for USAID. Sets forth entertainment and/or representation limits for: (1) the Inter-American Foundation; (2) the Trade and Development Agency; (3) the Peace Corps; (4) IMET; (5) the Foreign Military Financing Program; and (6) the Millennium Challenge Corporation.  \n    Section\n    506\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for: (1) assistance under a new bilateral agreement unless such assistance is exempt from taxation, or reimbursed, by the foreign government; (2) direct assistance or reparations to Cuba, North Korea, Iran, or Syria; (3) assistance to any country whose elected head of government is deposed by military coup or decree (assistance may be resumed if a democratic government is elected to office); (4) certain transfers between U.S. agencies except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriations Act, or between appropriations accounts without prior presidential consultation with Congress; and (5) assistance for production of any export commodity by a foreign country if the commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to U.S. producers of a similar or competing commodity (with exceptions for specified benefits to U.S. producers or to developing countries).  \n    Section\n    510\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the commercial leasing of certain defense articles (instead of the government-to-government sale) to Israel, Egypt, North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) members, and major non-NATO allies if the President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons to do so.  \n    Section\n    511\n     - \n    \n    States, with specified exceptions, that no part of any appropriation contained in any title of this Act shall remain available for obligation after the expiration of the current fiscal year unless expressly provided for in this Act.  \n    Section\n    512\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits use of appropriations under this Act for: (1) a country in default for more than one year to the United States unless the President determines such assistance to be in the U.S. national interest; and (2) financing agricultural commodity exports of a country if such commodity is likely to be a surplus on world markets and cause substantial injury to U.S. producers of a similar commodity.  \n    Section\n    514\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. executive directors of specified international financial institutions to oppose any assistance for the production or extraction of any commodity or mineral for export if it is in surplus on world markets and such assistance will cause substantial injury to U.S. producers of a similar or competing commodity.  \n    Section\n    515\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth specified congressional notification requirements.  \n    Section\n    516\n     - \n    \n    Declares that funds appropriated for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs that are returned or not made available for international organizations and programs shall remain available for obligation until September 30, 2008. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to remove Libya from the list of countries for which a share of U.S. assistance to international organizations is required to be withheld.  \n    Section\n    517\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the availability of assistance for the Independent States of the former Soviet Union to a government of such an Independent State: (1) if it directs action in violation of the territorial integrity or national sovereignty of any other Independent State; or (2) to enhance its military capability (except for demilitarization, demining, or nonproliferation programs). Withholds specified funds for the government of the Russian Federation until the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that Russia has: (1) terminated nuclear- or missile-related assistance to Iran and Burma; and (2) implemented no government action of religious discrimination. Obligates funds for the Russian Far East. Exempts specified activities in Azerbaijan from the prohibition on assistance to the government of Azerbaijan under the FREEDOM Support Act.  \n    Section\n    518\n     - \n    \n    States that: (1) in order to reduce reliance on abortion in developing nations funds shall be available only to voluntary family planning projects which offer, either directly or through referral to, or information about access to, a broad range of family planning methods and services; and (2) in awarding grants for natural family planning under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 no applicant shall be discriminated against because of such applicant's religious or conscientious commitment to offer only natural family planning.  \n    Section\n    519\n     - \n    \n    Limits the amount of export financing funds (other than for administrative expenses) that can be transferred from one appropriation to another to not more than 5%, with no appropriation being increased by more than 25% by such transfer.  \n    Section\n    520\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds for Liberia, Serbia, Sudan, Zimbabwe, Pakistan, or Cambodia except through the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.  \n    Section\n    522\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available to reimburse governmental and private entities for the cost of individuals detailed to USAID for child survival and disease prevention programs in developing countries.  \n    Section\n    523\n     - \n    \n    Conditions 20% of the U.S. contribution to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and Malaria on the progress of reforms to improve monitoring and evaluation of Fund financing.  \n    Section\n    524\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Department of Defense (DOD) to notify the Committees on Appropriations before providing excess DOD articles to certain NATO and major non-NATO countries.  \n    Section\n    525\n     - \n    \n    Specifies and limits the funds that may be obligated under this Act for aircraft procurement.  \n    Section\n    526\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to pay for the attendance of more than 50 employees of a federal department or agency at any single conference outside the United States unless the Secretary determines that such attendance is in the national interest.  \n    Section\n    527\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits bilateral assistance funds to any country which the President determines grants sanctuary from prosecution to any individual or group which has committed an act of international terrorism or otherwise supports such activities. Authorizes the President to waive such prohibition for national security and humanitarian reasons.  \n    Section\n    528\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes nongovernmental organizations which are USAID grantees or contractors to place funds made available to them under this Act in interest bearing accounts in order to enhance their participation in debt-for-development and debt-for-nature exchanges.  \n    Section\n    529\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Administrator of USAID to require foreign countries that receive foreign assistance which results in the generation of local currencies to deposit such currencies in a separate account to be used to finance foreign assistance activities.  \n    Section\n    530\n     - \n    \n    Requires the President to submit to the Committees on Appropriations a plan for the distribution of the assets of an Enterprise Fund before any distribution resulting from liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Fund.  \n    Section\n    531\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to report quarterly to the Committees on Appropriations regarding peacekeeping operations fund use.  \n    Section\n    532\n     - \n    \n    Declares that provisions under this or any other Act authorizing appropriations for foreign operations or export financing shall not be construed to prohibit activities authorized by the Peace Corps Act, the Inter-American Foundation Act, or the African Development Foundation Act. Requires an agency to report to the Committees on Appropriations whenever it is conducting or proposing activities in a country for which such assistance is prohibited.  \n    Section\n    533\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds to provide: (1) any financial incentive to a business for purposes of inducing it to relocate outside the United States if it will reduce the number of U.S. employees; or (2) assistance for any program that contributes to the violation of internationally recognized workers rights in the recipient country.  \n    Section\n    534\n     - \n    \n    Allows funds appropriated under this Act for Afghanistan to be made available notwithstanding restrictions on: (1) assistance to countries in payment default to the United States; and (2) law enforcement assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Allows funds appropriated under the trade and economic assistance titles of this Act to be made available to: (1) Iraq, Lebanon, Montenegro, and Pakistan; (2) war victims; (3) displaced children; (4) displaced Burmese; and (5) victims of trafficking in persons and to combat such trafficking. Authorizes the use of foreign assistance funds to support tropical forestry and biodiversity conservation programs and energy programs aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Authorizes USAID to: (1) employ up to 25 personal services contractors in the United States to provide support for specified new or expanded overseas programs until permanent direct hire personnel are hired and trained; and (2) make an exception to the fair opportunity process under an indefinite-quantity contract for a small or disadvantaged business. Authorizes the President to use up $100 million in FY2007 for contingency spending under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, notwithstanding the $25 million funding ceiling. Expands authorities under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 for civilian police assistance for a regional, district, municipal, or other sub-national entity emerging from instability. Obligates specified funds managed by the Bureau for Democracy, Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance of USAID as a general contribution to the World Food Program. Makes funds under this Act available to American educational institutions for programs and activities in the People's Republic of China (PRC) relating to the environment, democracy, and the rule of law. Amends P.L. 107-57 to extend specified presidential waiver authorities with respect to Pakistan through FY2007. Authorizes, upon congressional consultation, specified ESF funds to establish a Middle East Foundation to support democracy and the rule of law. Requires: (1) matching funds; and (2) ongoing oversight to prohibit such funds' distribution to groups or individuals involved in terrorism. Obligates specified funds under this Act for reconciliation programs. Extends assistance for U.S. contributions to the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund through FY2009. Amends the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 to extend application and reapplication authority through October 1, 2007, for aliens seeking to qualify under specified refugee categories.  \n    Section\n    535\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the Arab League boycott of Israel (reinstated in 1997), and the secondary boycott of American firms that have commercial ties with Israel, is an impediment to regional peace and to U.S. investment and trade in the Middle East and North Africa and should be terminated; and (2) the President should report annually to Congress on specific U.S. steps taken to encourage Arab League states to end the boycott.  \n    Section\n    536\n     - \n    \n    Declares that restrictions on assistance to foreign countries contained in this Act or any other Act (except those relating to international terrorism or human rights violations) shall not be construed to restrict assistance: (1) in support of certain programs of nongovernmental organizations; or (2) under specified provisions of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 during FY2007.  \n    Section\n    537\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the reprogramming of earmarked appropriations for other programs within the same account, provided certain requirements are met. Sets forth certain other requirements with respect to ceilings and earmarks of appropriations under this Act.  \n    Section\n    538\n     - \n    \n    Reduces by a specified amount funds appropriated or made available under titles I and III of this Act in order to reduce unobligated balances. Requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to allocate such reduction proportionately to each appropriate program.  \n    Section\n    539\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States that were not authorized before the enactment of this Act.  \n    Section\n    540\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds to pay any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any U.N. member (including costs for attendance of another country's delegation at international conferences held under the auspices of multilateral or international organizations).  \n    Section\n    541\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the provision of funds to a nongovernmental organization that fails to provide any document, file, or record necessary for USAID auditing requirements.  \n    Section\n    542\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the provision of funds to any foreign government that provides lethal military equipment to a country that the Secretary has determined has a terrorist government, unless the President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional committees that such assistance is in the U.S. national interest.  \n    Section\n    543\n     - \n    \n    Withholds assistance to a foreign country in an amount equal to 110% of the total adjudicated unpaid parking fines and penalties and unpaid property taxes owed by the country to the District of Columbia or New York City that were incurred from April 1, 1997-September 30, 2006. Authorizes the Secretary to waive such prohibition with respect to unpaid property taxes if in U.S. national interests. Requires the Secretary to submit a collections plan to the Committees on Appropriations.  \n    Section\n    544\n     - \n    \n    Permits the President to provide up to a specified amount of commodities and services to the United Nations War Crimes Tribunal if doing so will contribute to a just resolution of charges regarding genocide or other violations of international law in the former Yugoslavia. States that funds made available for tribunals other than Yugoslavia, Rwanda, or the Special Court for Sierra Leone shall be made available subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations.  \n    Section\n    545\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes disposal on a grant basis in foreign countries of demining equipment used in support of the clearance of land mines and unexploded ordnance for humanitarian purposes.  \n    Section\n    546\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the obligation of certain funds to pay for: (1) alcoholic beverages; or (2) entertainment expenses for recreational activities.  \n    Section\n    547\n     - \n    \n    Obligates specified funds under this Act for Egypt for: (1) education programs; (2) new economic and political reforms (conditions such assistance upon Egypt meeting specified benchmarks); (3) democracy, human rights, and governance programs; and (4) the foreign military financing program.  \n    Section\n    548\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to support a Palestinian state unless the Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that: (1) a new leadership of a Palestinian governing entity has been democratically elected; (2) such entity has demonstrated a commitment to peaceful coexistence with Israel and is taking measures to counter terrorism; and (3) the PA is working to establish a lasting peace in the Middle East. Authorizes the President to waive such prohibition if in the U.S. national interest. States that such funding restriction shall not apply to assistance to help reform the PA and affiliated institutions or a newly elected governing entity meet such assistance requirements. Expresses the sense of Congress that the newly elected governing entity should enact a constitution assuring the rule of law, an independent judiciary, and respect for human rights, and should enact other laws and regulations assuring transparent and accountable governance.  \n    Section\n    549\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits, with an exception for acquisition of additional space for the Consulate General in Jerusalem, the obligation of funds appropriated under this Act to create in Jerusalem a new U.S. agency office for the purpose of conducting U.S. business with the Palestinian Authority (PA) over Gaza and Jericho (or any successor Palestinian governing entity) provided for in the Israel-PLO Declaration of Principles. States that: (1) official U.S.-PA meetings should continue to take place in locations other than Jerusalem; and (2) U.S. officers and employees may continue to meet in Jerusalem on other subjects with Palestinians (including those who occupy positions in the PA). Amends the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1987 to authorize the President upon congressional notification to waive the prohibition on furthering the interests of the PLO if in the U.S. national interest. Limits the duration of any such waiver to not more than six months at a time and shall not apply beyond 12 months after enactment of this Act.  \n    Section\n    550\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being: (1) obligated for assistance to the PLO for the West Bank and Gaza unless the President has suspended application of the prohibition on assistance to international organizations for the PLO; and (2) obligated or expended for the PA unless the Secretary reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the PA has complied with the standards contained in the Quartet's January 30, 2006 Statement on the Situation in the Middle East that \"a future Palestinian government must be committed to nonviolence, recognition of Israel, and acceptance of previous agreements and obligations, including the Roadmap.\" Authorizes the President to waive such prohibitions if in the U.S. national interest. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to provide equipment, technical support, consulting services, or any other assistance to the Palestinian Broadcasting Corporation. Requires the Secretary, for FY2007, 30 days prior to initial ESF fund obligation for the bilateral West Bank and Gaza program, to certify to the appropriate committees that procedures have been established to ensure Government Accountability Office (GAO) access to appropriate U.S. financial information in order to review the uses of program funds. Requires the Secretary to take all appropriate steps to ensure such assistance is not provided to or through any individual or entity that advocates or engages in terrorist activity. Prohibits use of funds to honor individuals who commit, or have committed, acts of terrorism. Requires and obligates funds for program audits.  \n    Section\n    551\n     - \n    \n    Conditions assistance under this Act for the Colombian Armed Forces as follows: (1) up to 75% of such funds may be obligated prior to a certification by the Secretary pursuant to this section; (2) up to 12.5% of such funds may be obligated only after the Secretary certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional committees that such Armed Forces are cooperating in bringing to justice those members who have committed gross human rights violations, including extrajudicial killings, are severing links with, and dismantling, paramilitary groups, and are not violating land and property rights of indigenous communities; and (3) the balance of such funds may be obligated after July 31, 2007, if the Secretary certifies and reports to the appropriate congressional committees that the Armed Forces are continuing to meet these conditions and are restoring government authority and human rights in areas controlled by paramilitary and guerrilla organizations. Prohibits the Secretary from issuing a visa to any alien who: (1) has willfully provided support to FARC, ELN, or AUC; or (2) has participated in the commission of gross human rights violations. Provides for waiver of such prohibition on a case-by-case basis for humanitarian reasons or to support the peace process. Makes specified FY2007 funds available for demobilization and disarmament of former members of foreign terrorist organizations (FTOs) in Colombia (AUC, FARC, and ELN) if the Secretary certifies to the appropriate congressional committees that: (1) assistance will be provided only for individuals who have terminated FTO affiliation and are meeting Colombia Demobilization Program requirements; (2) the government of Colombia is cooperating in extraditing wanted FTO leaders and members to the United States; (3) the government of Colombia is implementing a framework for dismantling FTO organizational structures; and (4) funds shall not be made available as cash payments to individuals, and are available only for verification, reintegration, vetting, recovery of assets for reparations for victims, and investigations and prosecutions. Obligates funds for Haiti for: (1) child health; (2) development assistance; (3) economic support; (4) narcotics control and law enforcement; and (5) military and military training. Makes the government of Haiti eligible to purchase U.S. defense articles and services for its Coast Guard. Prohibits the use of certain funds under this Act for the transfer of U.S. weapons, ammunition or other lethal property to the Haitian National Police until the Secretary certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that: (1) the United Nations Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) has vetted senior levels of the Haitian National Police and has ensured that those credibly alleged to have committed serious crimes, including drug trafficking and human rights violations, have been suspended; and (2) the Transitional Haitian National Government is cooperating with a U.N. sponsored police and judicial reform plan. Obligates funds for cooperation with Cuba on counter-narcotics matters. States that such funds shall not be available if the President certifies that: (1) Cuba does not have procedures to protect against the loss of innocent life in connection with the interdiction of illegal drugs; and (2) there is evidence of drug trafficking involvement by the government of Cuba.  \n    Section\n    552\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds for the government of Sudan or for the cost of modifying loans and loan guarantees held by the government of Sudan unless the Secretary certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of Sudan: (1) has taken significant steps to disband government-supported militia groups in Darfur, and the government and government-supported militia groups are honoring the 2004 cease-fire; and (2) is allowing unimpeded humanitarian access to Darfur. States that such prohibition shall not apply to: (1) humanitarian assistance; (2) assistance for Darfur and for areas outside the control of the government of Sudan; and (3) assistance to support the Comprehensive Peace Agreement. States that for purposes of this Act and the International Malaria Control Act of 2000: (1) the terms \"government of Sudan,\" areas outside of control of the government of Sudan,\" and \"area in Sudan outside of control of the government of Sudan\" shall have the same meaning and application as was the case prior to June 5, 2004; and (2) Southern Kordofan/Nuba Mountains State, Blue Nile State and Abyei shall be deemed areas outside control of the government of Sudan. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors to international financial institutions to vote against any loan extension to the government of Zimbabwe, except to meet basic human needs or to promote democracy, unless the Secretary certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the rule of law has been restored in Zimbabwe.  \n    Section\n    553\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors to appropriate international financial institutions to vote against any financial or other fund use for Burma. Makes ESF assistance available for humanitarian assistance to displaced Burmese along Burma's borders. States that such funds shall be subject to the regular notification procedures of the Committees on Appropriations. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors to international financial institutions to support projects in Tibet if such projects do not provide incentives for the migration and settlement of non-Tibetans into Tibet or facilitate the transfer of ownership of Tibetan land and natural resources to non-Tibetans. Obligates ESF funds for nongovernmental organizations to support activities which preserve cultural traditions and promote sustainable development and environmental conservation in Tibetan communities in the Tibetan Autonomous Region and in other Tibetan communities in China, including National Endowment for Democracy programs.  \n    Section\n    554\n     - \n    \n    Obligates funds for Afghanistan for: (1) humanitarian, reconstruction, and related assistance; (2) reforestation activities; (3) agriculture and rural development programs; (4) Afghan women and girls, including grants to support training and equipment to improve the capacity of women-led Afghan nongovernmental organizations; (5) the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission and for other Afghan human rights organizations; and (6) Afghan civilians who have suffered losses from military operations against the Taliban and insurgents.  \n    Section\n    555\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds available for assistance for the government of Kazakhstan only if the Secretary reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of Kazakhstan has made significant improvements in the protection of human rights during the preceding six-month period. Authorizes the Secretary to waive such requirements if in the U.S. national interest. Makes funds available for assistance (including defense articles) for the government of Uzbekistan only if the Secretary reports to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of Uzbekistan is making substantial progress in meeting its commitments under the Declaration on the Strategic Partnership and Cooperation Framework Between the Republic of Uzbekistan and the United States of America, including: (1) respect for human rights; (2) establishing a genuine multiparty system, and ensuring free elections; (3) freedom of expression; and (4) independence of the media. Directs the Secretary to report to the Committees on Appropriations and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations and the House Committee on International Relations on the U.S. defense articles, defense services, and financial assistance provided to the countries of Central Asia (Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan) during the previous six-month period, and their use during such period by units of the armed forces, border guards, or other security forces of such countries.  \n    Section\n    556\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds for foreign security forces if the Secretary has credible evidence they have committed gross violations of human rights, unless the Secretary reports to the Committees on Appropriations that such country is taking steps to bring the responsible persons to justice.  \n    Section\n    557\n     - \n    \n    Requires a specified annual foreign military training report to be submitted by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary to the Committees on Appropriations by a certain date.  \n    Section\n    558\n     - \n    \n    States that funds appropriated by this Act, except funds appropriated under the headings Trade and Development Agency and Overseas Private Investment Corporation, may be obligated and expended notwithstanding specified sections of P.L. 91-672 and the State Department Basic Authorities Act of 1956.  \n    Section\n    559\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes U.S. participation in, and appropriations for, the U.S. contribution to the first replenishment of the Enterprise for the Americas Multilateral Investment Fund.  \n    Section\n    560\n     - \n    \n    Obligates funds for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) if otherwise not prohibited. States that funds appropriated in this Act for UNFPA but not made available because of the operation of any provision of law shall be available only for family planning, maternal, and reproductive health activities. Prohibits amounts under the Child Survival Health Programs Fund for UNFPA to be made available in the PRC. Prohibits funding of abortions.  \n    Section\n    561\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for assistance (except humanitarian assistance and assistance for democratization) and requires the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors to international financial institutions to vote against the extension of assistance to any country (Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and Serbia) or entity (Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Montenegro, and the Republika Srpska) that has failed to take steps to implement its international legal obligations to apprehend and transfer to the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia all persons in their territory who have been indicted by the Tribunal.  \n    Section\n    562\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors at specified international financial institutions to oppose any loan, grant, strategy, or policy that would require user fees or service charges on poor people for primary education or primary health care, including prevention and treatment efforts for HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, and infant, child, and maternal well-being, in connection with the institution's financing programs.  \n    Section\n    563\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds appropriated by this Act available for assistance for Serbia after May 31, 2007, if the President certifies to the Committees on Appropriations that the government of Serbia is: (1) cooperating with the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, including access for investigators, provision of documents, and the surrender and transfer of indictees or assistance in their apprehension, including Ratko Mladic and Radovan Karadzic; (2) taking steps consistent with the Dayton Accords to end Serbian financial, political, security and other support which has served to maintain separate Republika Srpska institutions; and (3) taking steps to implement policies which reflect a respect for minority rights and the rule of law. States that such requirements shall not apply to Kosovo, humanitarian assistance, or assistance to promote democracy.  \n    Section\n    564\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the use of foreign assistance funds to enhance the effectiveness and accountability of civilian police authority through human rights training, and through the promotion of civilian police roles that support democratic governance, including programs on conflict prevention, police-community relations, disaster assistance, and gender-based violence.  \n    Section\n    565\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the President to reduce amounts owed to the United States by eligible countries as a result of: (1) housing guarantees made pursuant to the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; (2) credits extended or guarantees issued under the Arms Export Control Act; and (3) certain export guarantees for U.S. agricultural commodities. Permits exercise of such authority only: (1) to implement multilateral official debt relief and referendum agreements known as the Paris Club Agreed Minutes; and (2) with respect to countries (IDA-only countries) with heavy debt that are eligible to borrow from the International Development Association (but not from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development).  \n    Section\n    566\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the President to engage in certain debt buybacks or sales. Authorizes sale, reduction, or cancellation of certain loans to foreign governments upon payment from an eligible purchaser that plans to use such loans only for: (1) debt-for-equity swaps, debt-for-development swaps, or debt-for-nature swaps; or (2) debt buyback by an eligible country if such country uses specified amounts of local currency to support activities that link conservation with local community development and child development activities. Limits such authority to funds appropriated by this Act under the debt restructuring heading.  \n    Section\n    567\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to report to the Committees on Appropriations by January 1, 2007, and for each fiscal quarter thereafter, on fund use under the following headings: (1) foreign military financing; (2) international military education and training; and (3) peacekeeping operations.  \n    Section\n    568\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the transfer of excess defense articles to Albania, Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Former Yugoslavia Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, India, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, Pakistan, Romania, Slovakia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan.  \n    Section\n    569\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes specified funds under this Act to be used by USAID to hire up to 175 persons per fiscal year on a limited appointment basis in the United States and abroad. Conditions such hirings upon an equivalent elimination of USAID nondirect-hire employees. Terminates such authority on September 30, 2008. Authorizes USAID to use specified amounts from such funds for overseas support costs of Foreign Service members of rank four or below to reduce USAID reliance on nondirect-hire employees. Authorizes specified funds under this Act for the costs of persons detailed or employed by USAID to carry out natural disaster response programs.  \n    Section\n    570\n     - \n    \n    Obligates funds for: (1) biodiversity (and forest) programs in developing countries; (2) USAID's biodiversity strategy for the Amazon basin; (3) the Congo basin forest partnership, including protection of great apes; and (4) clean energy policies in developing countries, including greenhouse gas monitoring, carbon sequestration activities, and climate change mitigation programs. Directs the President to report on federal expenditures for climate change programs. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to inform international financial institutions and the public that it is U.S. policy that any assistance by such institutions for the extraction and export of oil, gas, coal, timber, or other natural resource should not be provided unless the government of the country has or is taking steps to establish functioning systems for: (1) revenue and expenditure accounting; (2) independent auditing; and (3) verifying government receipts against company payments.  \n    Section\n    571\n     - \n    \n    Obligates: (1) ESF funds for USAID programs for people with disabilities in developing countries; and (2) other funds for staff training in overseas USAID missions to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in developing countries.  \n    Section\n    572\n     - \n    \n    Obligates foreign military financing funds for: (1) the Philippines; (2) Indonesia; (3) Mongolia; (4) Thailand; (5) Cambodia; (6) Fiji; and (7) Tonga.  \n    Section\n    573\n     - \n    \n    Establishes in the Treasury a fund for the Peace Corps to provide separation pay for host country resident personal services contractors of the Peace Corps.  \n    Section\n    574\n     - \n    \n    Rescinds specified amounts for: (1) Gaza; and (2) Egypt.  \n    Section\n    575\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth specified allocation provisions.  \n    Section\n    577\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to fund activities or projects undertaken by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development that are designed to hinder the flow of capital and jobs from high-tax jurisdictions to low-tax jurisdictions or to infringe on the sovereign right of jurisdictions to determine their own domestic policies.  \n    Section\n    578\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to submit a report on Indonesia to the Committees on Appropriations respecting: (1) any strategy linking U.S. foreign assistance to progress on human rights; (2) progress made by Indonesia in prosecuting current or former members of the Indonesian military who have been implicated in gross violations of human rights in East Timor, Papua, and elsewhere; (3) efforts made by Indonesia to provide unimpeded access to Papua for the media and humanitarian organizations; (4) progress made by Indonesia in establishing civilian control of the military; (5) progress in the investigation of the murders of two U.S. citizens and one Indonesian citizen in Timika in 2002; and (6) the status of the murder investigation of Munir Said Thalib.  \n    Section\n    579\n     - \n    \n    Obligates funds for activities to improve the capacity of foreign government agencies and nongovernmental organizations to prevent child abandonment, address the needs of orphans, displaced, and abandoned children, and provide permanent homes through family reunification, guardianship and domestic adoptions.  \n    Section\n    580\n     - \n    \n    States that in determining eligibility for assistance under part I of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 foreign nongovernmental organizations shall not be: (1) eligible for such assistance solely on the basis of health or medical services provided by such organizations with non-U.S. government funds if such services do not violate the laws of the country in which they are being provided and would not violate U.S. federal law if provided in the United States; and (2) subject to requirements relating to the use of non-U.S. Government funds for advocacy and lobbying activities other than those that apply to U.S. nongovernmental organizations receiving assistance under part I of such Act."