"3/9/2006--Passed House amended. Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 2005 - \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Repeals the sunset provision of the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998 (thus making such Act permanent).  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Office of National Drug Policy Control to evaluate the effectiveness of national drug control policy and programs by developing and applying specific goals and performance measurements. Grants executive branch rank and status to the Director of the Office. Redefines the position of Deputy Director for Supply Reduction to require such Deputy Director to: (1) have substantial experience and expertise in drug interdiction operations and other supply reduction activities; and (2) serve as the U.S. Interdiction Coordinator.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Expands the responsibilities of the Director to include: (1) supporting the substance abuse information clearinghouse established by the Public Health Service Act; (2) coordinating research and development of medications to treat drug addiction; and (3) involving state and local officials in the formulation and implementation of the National Drug Control Strategy. Revises procedures for National Drug Control Program budget requests. Prohibits the Director from confirming the adequacy of any budget request that fails to meet specified requirements under this Act. Requires the Director to submit to Congress: (1) a comprehensive strategy to address the threat from South American and Afghan heroin; (2) a general counterdrug intelligence plan; (3) a Southwest Border Counternarcotics Strategy; (4) a scientific study of the use of mycoherbicide to eliminate illicit drug crops; (5) a study of the impact on U.S. citizens of drug trafficking violence along the U.S.-Mexico border; (6) an assessment of the use by children, 12 to 17 years old, of marijuana, alcohol, unauthorized prescription and other illicit drugs and the treatment options for such children; and (7) the National Synthetic Drugs Action Strategy as outlined in the National Synthetic Drugs Action Plan of October 2004; (8) a study of state laws on precursor chemical controls; (9) a study of methamphetamine-related activites conducted by state Drug Endangered Children programs; and (10) a comprehensive strategy to address the increased threat from methamphetamine use. Requires the Director to establish a tax-exempt corporation to advise states on establishing laws and policies to address alcohol and other drug issues and to revise model state drug laws. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Requires reports to the Director and specified congressional committees by July 1 of each year from: (1) the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior on an assessment of the quantity of illegal drug cultivation and manufacturing in the United States; (2) the Attorney General on the number and type of arrests and prosecutions for drug violations and seizures of drugs; (3) the Secretary of Homeland Security on drug seizures and on air and maritime patrol hours dedicated to drug supply reduction missions; and (4) the Secretary of Defense on such patrol hours.  \n    Section\n    8\n     - \n    \n    Revises requirements for the development, submission, implementation, and assessment of the National Drug Control Strategy. Requires the President to submit the Strategy to Congress not later than February 1 of each year. Requires the Strategy to include: (1) a plan to reduce the availability of illegal drugs and the level of drug-related crime; (2) a review of drug demand reduction activities by private entities, including community and faith-based organizations; (3) an assessment of current illicit drug use and of the reduction of illicit drug availability; (4) a review of drug treatment and the research agenda of the Counterdrug Technology Assessment Center; and (5) a summary of efforts by federal agencies to coordinate with private entities to conduct private research to develop medications to treat drug addiction. Revises the process for development and submission of the Strategy to require the Director to consult with community and faith-based organizations with experience and expertise in demand reduction and private citizens and organizations with experience and expertise in law enforcement. Revises the national drug control performance measurement system to: (1) require the Director to submit to Congress by February 1 an annual description of such measurement system; (2) require two- and five-year performance measures.  \n    Section\n    9\n     - \n    \n    Revises the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program to: (1) specify the purpose of the Program as the reduction of drug trafficking and drug production in the United States; (2) allow law enforcement agencies to petition for the designation of a high intensity drug trafficking area; (3) require the appointment of an Executive Board to manage each such area; (4) limit the use of funds for the establishment of drug prevention programs; (5) authorize the Director to use Program funds to assist law enforcement agencies in terrorism prevention activities; and (6) authorize funding for response to emerging drug trafficking threats in existing high intensity drug trafficking areas. Requires the Director to: (1) report to Congress on an assessment of drug enforcement task forces and intelligence sharing in high intensity drug trafficking areas; and (2) allocate funds to combat the trafficking of methamphetamine in such areas. Authorizes appropriations for FY2007-FY2011.  \n    Section\n    10\n     - \n    \n    Dawson Family Community Protection Act - Requires the Director to allocate specified funds to high intensity drug trafficking areas with severe neighborhood safety and illegal drug distribution problems. Specifies required uses of such funding, including protection of witnesses to illegal drug distribution activities.  \n    Section\n    11\n     - \n    \n    Replaces the Director of Technology of the Counter-Drug Technology Assessment Center with a Chief Scientist. Includes within the responsibilities of the Director of the Office of National Drug Policy Control an anti-drug technology transfer program. Directs the Chief Scientist, in transferring drug interdiction and enforcement technologies, to give priority to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies in southwest and northern border areas with significant traffic in illicit drugs. Requires the Director to provide annual reports to specified congressional committees on requests for anti-drug technology transfers. Requires the Secretary of Homeland Security to provide assistance and support to the Office and the Director in counterdrug technology assessments.  \n    Section\n    12\n     - \n    \n    Replaces the President's Council on Counter-Narcotics with a National Youth Antidrug Media Campaign conducted by the Director to: (1) prevent drug abuse among young people; (2) increase adult awareness of the impact of drug abuse on young people; and (3) encourage parents to discuss the dangers of illegal drug use with young people. Requires the Director to: (1) develop the overall purposes and strategy of the campaign in consultation with the Partnership for a Drug Free America; and (2) report to Congress on the campaign annually. Authorizes the Director, in conducting the campaign, to emphasize the prevention of youth marijuana use. Requires the Director to expend at least 10% of authorized funds for methamphetamine use reduction. Authorizes the Director to award grants to private entities for methamphetamine media projects. Authorizes appropriations for FY2007-FY2011. Repeals the Drug-Free Media Campaign Act of 1998.  \n    Section\n    13\n     - \n    \n    Designates the Deputy Director for Supply Reduction in the Office as the U. S. Interdiction Coordinator. Requires the Coordinator to implement the National Interdiction Command and Control Plan and to report to Congress on March 1 of each year on such Plan. Establishes an Interdiction Committee to oversee interdiction efforts in support of the National Drug Control Strategy and to review the National Interdiction Command and Control Plan. Requires the Committee to report to the Director and to Congress by September 30 of each year on any significant findings.  \n    Section\n    14\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to: (1) fund demonstration programs by eligible partnerships (defined as working groups of federal, state, or local agencies and community-based organizations) to shut down local illicit drug market hot spots and reduce the use of illicit drugs by chronic hard-drug users; and (2) submit an interim report to Congress by June 1, 2009, and a final report by June 1, 2010, on best practices for accomplishing the purposes of the demonstration programs. Authorizes appropriations for FY2007-FY2009 for both demonstration programs.  \n    Section\n    16\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for FY2007-FY2011.  \n    Section\n    17\n     - \n    \n    Makes certain technical amendments to the Public Health Service Act. Repeals the Director's Special Forfeiture Fund.  \n    Section\n    18\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Office to make disclosures of payments made for advertising and other communications.  \n    Section\n    19\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to base any drug control policy relating to syringe exchange programs for intravenous drug users on the best available medical and scientific evidence.  \n    Section\n    20\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to seek to convene an international summit, not later than one year of the enactment of this Act, on the threat of methamphetamine and synthetic drug precursor chemicals. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    21\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to study drug court programs held in nontraditional public places, such as schools. Requires the President to report to Congress on such study by February 1, 2007, as part of the National Drug Control Strategy.  \n    Section\n    22\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to report to Congress on the sponsorship by the Department of Health and Human Services of a conference titled the \"1st National Conference on Methamphetamine, HIV, and Hepatitis Science &amp; Response.\"  \n    Section\n    23\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to contract with the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences for a study of prescription drugs associated with iatrogenic addiction, including oxycodone hydrochloride controlled-release tablets, and to report to Congress on such study.  \n    Section\n    24\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to report to Congress on the representation of tribal governments in the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.  \n    Section\n    25\n     - \n    \n    National Methamphetamine Information Clearinghouse Act of 2005 - Establishes the National Methamphetamine Information Clearinghouse (NMIC) and the National Methamphetamine Advisory Council. Requires the NMIC to promote information sharing on methamphetamine programs and establish a toll-free number and website to provide information on the effects of methamphetamine use, treatment programs, and available grants. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    26\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Director to report to Congress on: (1) drug testing in schools; (2) methamphetamine usage in the United States; and (3) performance bonuses awarded to employees of the Office and the amount of such bonuses for the period between October 1, 2004, and the date of submission of the Director's report."