"9/8/2005--Public Law. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Second Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act to Meet Immediate Needs Arising From the Consequences of Hurricane Katrina, 2005 - Appropriates an additional $1.4 billion to the Department of Defense-Military for \"Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide\" for emergency hurricane expenses, to support costs of evacuation, emergency repairs, deployment of personnel, and other costs resulting from immediate relief efforts, to remain available through FY2006. Allows the transfer of up to $6 million to the Armed Forces Retirement Home for emergency hurricane expenses. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to transfer these funds to appropriations for military personnel, operation and maintenance, procurement, family housing, Defense Health Program, and working capital funds. Requires transferred funds to be merged with and be available for the same purposes and for the same time period as the appropriation or fund to which transferred. Requires re-transfer back to this appropriation of any transferred funds determined to be not necessary for the purposes of this Act. Directs the Secretary to notify the congressional defense committees in writing within five days after any such transfer. Designates such amounts as emergency requirements which shall shall not count for budget enforcement purposes of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Appropriates to the Department of the Army, Corps of Engineers--Civil, an additional $200 million for \"Operation and Maintenance,\" and an additional $200 million for \"Flood Control and Coastal Emergencies,\" to remain available until expended, for emergency expenses for repair of storm damage to authorized projects, as well as flood control and hurricane shore protection projects, in the Gulf States affected by Hurricane Katrina. Requires weekly reports by the Chief of Engineers, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, to the Committees on Appropriations on funds allocation and obligation. Designates such amounts as emergency requirements which shall shall not count for budget enforcement purposes of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Appropriates an additional $50 billion to the Department of Homeland Security for disaster relief (for areas affected by Hurricane Katrina), to remain available until expended, of which up to $100 million may be transferred to and merged with \"Emergency Preparedness and Response--Public Health Programs\" for the National Disaster Medical System to support medical care as authorized by the Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002. Requires the transfer of $15 million to, and merger with, \"Departmental Management and Operations--Office of Inspector General\" for necessary expenses of the Office of Inspector General for audits and investigations as authorized by law for Hurricane Katrina response and recovery activities. Requires weekly reports by the Secretary of Homeland Security to the Committees on Appropriations on funds allocation and obligation. Designates such amounts as emergency requirements which shall shall not count for budget enforcement purposes of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. \n    Section\n    101\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the use of the emergency procurement authority of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act by executive agencies to make purchases without obtaining competitive quotations for procurements of property or services determined by the agency head to be used in support of Hurricane Katrina rescue and relief operations, if an agency employee determines that the purchase price is reasonable. Increases from $2,500 to $250,000 the maximum amount (micro-purchase threshold) of such a purchase that: (1) may be made without obtaining competitive quotations; and (2) need not be distributed equitably among qualified suppliers."