"6/7/2006--Passed House without amendment. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary has been expanded because action occurred on the measure.) Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act - Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), upon the request of a state governor, to provide financial assistance to hire additional personnel to assist the state with expertise in fields relevant to consideration of federal refinery authorizations. Requires a federal agency responsible for refinery authorization to provide, upon the request of a state governor, technical, legal, or other nonfinancial assistance to facilitate state consideration of such authorizations. Directs the President to appoint a federal coordinator to facilitate such authorizations. Requires the coordinator, upon the request of an applicant seeking a federal refinery authorization, to establish a memorandum of agreement, executed by relevant federal and state agencies, setting forth the most expeditious coordinated schedule possible for completion of all such authorizations. Grants the U.S. District Court for the district in which the proposed refinery is located exclusive jurisdiction over any civil action for the review of the failure of an agency or official to act on a federal refinery authorization in accordance with the schedule established pursuant to the memorandum of agreement. Requires expedited review of the civil action. Instructs the President to designate at least three closed military installations as potentially suitable for the construction of a refinery. Requires that at least one such site be designated as potentially suitable for construction of a refinery to refine biomass in order to produce biofuel. Requires the redevelopment authority, in preparing or revising the redevelopment plan for each such installation, to consider the feasibility and practicability of siting a refinery on it. Amends the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to repeal its requirements for refinery revitalization."