"2/24/2000--Passed Senate amended. Iran Nonproliferation Act of 2000 - Directs the President to report periodically to specified congressional committees on foreign persons who, on or after January 1, 1999, have transferred to Iran: (1) controlled goods, services, or technology; or (2) non-controlled goods, services, or technology that nevertheless would be, if they were U.S. goods, services, or technology, prohibited for export to Iran because of their potential to make a material contribution to the development of nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, or ballistic or cruise missile systems. Excludes from identification in such reports any such persons who were previously identified, or who have acted on behalf of, or in concert with, the U.S. Government. Authorizes the President, with specified exceptions, to apply to such foreign person certain measures: (1) set forth in Executive Order 12938 prohibitions; (2) prohibiting U.S. Government sales to such persons of any item on the United States Munitions List and defense articles and defense services, or design and construction services under the Arms Export Control Act; and (3) denying licenses and suspending existing licenses for the transfer to such persons of items controlled under the Export Administration Act of 1979. Urges the President to: (1) contact each foreign person (or government with primary jurisdiction over such person) who has been identified under this Act in order to afford such person (or government) the opportunity to provide explanatory, exculpatory, or other additional information with respect to the transfer that caused such person to be so identified; and (2) exempt such person if so warranted from the requirements of this Act. Prohibits, with specified exceptions, any U.S. agency from making extraordinary payments to the Russian Aviation and Space Agency in connection with the International Space Station, or any other organization or entity of the Government of the Russian Federation, unless the President has determined, and reported to specified congressional committees, that: (1) it is the policy of the Government of the Russian Federation to oppose the proliferation to Iran of weapons of mass destruction and missile systems capable of delivering such weapons; (2) such government has demonstrated a commitment to seek out and prevent the transfer to Iran of goods, services, and technology that could make a material contribution to the development of nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, or of ballistic or cruise missile systems; and (3) neither the Russian Aviation and Space Agency, nor any organization under its control, has, during the one-year period prior to the determination, made transfers to Iran of controlled goods, services, or technology or non-controlled goods, services, or technology with potential to make a material contribution to Iran's development of nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons, or of ballistic or cruise missile systems."