"5/25/2006--Passed House without amendment. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary has been expanded because action occurred on the measure.) American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act - \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish, implement, and administer a competitive oil and gas leasing program for the exploration, development, and production of the oil and gas resources on the Coastal Plain of Alaska. Amends the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act of 1980 to repeal the proscription against production or leasing of oil and gas resources from the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). States that this Act is in compliance with such Act and certain other statutes, and is compatible with the purposes for which ANWR was established. States that the Secretary: (1) is not required to identify nonbearing alternative courses of action or to analyze the environmental effects of such courses of action; and (2) is only required to identify a preferred action for such leasing and a single leasing alternative, and to analyze the environmental effects and potential mitigation measures for those two alternatives. Authorizes the Secretary to designate up to a total of 45,000 acres of the Coastal Plain as a Special Area after consultation with the state of Alaska, the city of Kaktovik, and the North Slope Borough. Directs the Secretary to designate the Sadlerochit Spring area as such a Special Area. Prohibits surface occupancy of the lands comprising a Special Area if the Secretary leases any part thereof for oil and gas exploration, development, production, and related activities. Permits directional drilling in such Special Areas. States that the Secretary's sole authority to close lands within the Coastal Plain to oil and gas leasing, exploration, development, and production is that set forth in this Act.  \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Prescribes implementation guidelines for lease sales and lease grants, including a minimum of 200,000 acres for the first lease sale. Prescribes lease terms and conditions.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth: (1) a \"no significant adverse effect\" standard to govern Coastal Plain activities; (2) guidelines for expedited judicial review; and (3) a plan for federal and state distribution of revenues that pays semiannually to the State of Alaska 50% of revenues from the operations authorized under this Act.  \n    Section\n    10\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to issue rights-of-way and easements across the Coastal Plain for the transportation of oil and gas without regard to specified provisions of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act.  \n    Section\n    11\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to convey: (1) to the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation the surface estate of certain lands to the extent necessary to fulfill the Corporation's entitlement in accordance with a specified Agreement; and (2) to the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation the remaining subsurface estate to which it is entitled pursuant to a specified agreement between such Corporation and the United States of America.  \n    Section\n    12\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes financial assistance for entities directly impacted by oil and gas exploration or production under this Act, including the North Slope Borough and the City of Kaktovik. Restricts the uses of such assistance. Establishes in the Treasury the Coastal Plain Local Government Impact Aid Assistance Fund. Limits fund assistance to uses prescribed by this Act. Authorizes appropriations."