"9/21/2005--Passed House amended. Manufacturing Technology Competitiveness Act of 2005 - \n    Section\n    2\n     - \n    \n    Directs the President to establish or designate an Interagency Committee (IC) to plan and coordinate federal efforts in manufacturing research and development, with an Advisory Committee from the non-federal sector. Requires the IC to: (1) include representatives from the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), the Science and Technology Directorate of the Department of Homeland Security, the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, and any other agency that the President may designate; and (2) have its Chair designated by the Director of OSTP.  \n    Section\n    3\n     - \n    \n    Amends the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act to establish a pilot program of collaborative manufacturing research grants.  \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Requires the NIST Director to establish a program of manufacturing sciences research fellowships at the postdoctoral and the senior, established researcher levels.  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Revises requirements for evaluation of Centers under the NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership program. Allows acceptance of funds for such Centers from other federal agencies and the private sector, without such funds being considered part of the federal share. Requires the NIST Director to establish, within the Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, a program of competitive grants to Centers, or consortia of Centers, to develop projects to solve new or emerging manufacturing problems. Requires a three-year programmatic and operational plan for the MEP program to be transmitted to specified congressional committees.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for FY2006-2008 to the Secretary of Commerce for the following NIST programs: (1) scientific and technical research and services laboratory activities; (2) the Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award (under the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980); and (3) construction and maintenance of facilities. Reserves specified amounts of such FY2006 funding for NIST laboratory activities for: (1) electronics and electrical engineering; (2) manufacturing engineering; (3) chemical science and technology; (4) physics; (5) material science and engineering; (6) building and fire research; (7) computer science and applied mathematics; (8) technical assistance; (9) research support activities; (10) the Center for Neutron Research; and (11) the National Nanomanufacturing and Nanometrology Facility. Directs the Secretary to report to Congress on: (1) impacts of the possible elimination of the Advanced Technology Program on NIST laboratory programs; and (2) how the Department of Commerce plans to absorb the loss of Advanced Technology Program funds to NIST laboratory programs, or otherwise mitigate the effects of this loss on its programs and personnel.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary, as part of Teacher Science and Technology Enhancement Institute program, to carry out a program of standards education grants to develop higher education curricula on the role of standards in engineering, business, science, and economics. Authorizes appropriations for FY2006-2008 to the Secretary for the Teacher Science and Technology Enhancement Institute program of NIST.  \n    Section\n    8\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for FY2006-2008 to the Secretary for the following NIST programs: (1) Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP, with specified maximum portions for the competitive grant program established under this Act, through the Secretary or other appropriate federal agencies); (2) Collaborative Manufacturing Research Pilot Grants; and (3) Manufacturing Fellowships.  \n    Section\n    9\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes appropriations for FY2006-2008 to the Director of the National Science Foundation for the Advanced Technological Education program under the Scientific and Advanced Technology Act of 1992.  \n    Section\n    10\n     - \n    \n    Requires the NIST Director to establish, within the MEP program, a Katrina Assistance Program (KAP) to provide assistance to impacted small and medium-sized manufacturers in areas impacted by Hurricane Katrina. Requires KAP to provide such assistance, establish triage teams and virtual assistance data centers, and assess and make recommendations to minimize potential disruption on national manufacturing supply chains. Exempts KAP from matching fund requirements. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    11\n     - \n    \n    Requires the NIST Director to carry out an engineering performance study of the effects of Hurricane Katrina in the major disaster areas of Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi. Requires the study to: (1) examine physical structures damaged due to excessive wind, storm surge, and flooding, including engineered and nonengineered buildings and key physical infrastructures; and (2) develop new knowledge concerning practices related to building standards and codes, and review the adequacy of current building codes and standards. Authorizes the NIST Director to convene public meetings and conferences to inform the public, government authorities, and relevant professional associations regarding the study's findings and recommendations. Authorizes appropriations."