"9/26/2006--Passed House amended. Child Interstate Abortion Notification Act - Amends the federal criminal code to prohibit transporting a minor child across a state line to obtain an abortion (deems such transporting to be a de facto abridgment of the right of a parent under any law in the minor\u2019s state of residence that requires parental involvement in the minor\u2019s abortion decision). Makes an exception for an abortion necessary to safe the life of the minor. Protects from prosecution or civil liability the minor or the minor\u2019s parents for violations of this Act. Makes it an affirmative defense to a prosecution or civil action under this Act that a defendant: (1) reasonably believed that before the minor obtained the abortion, the required parental consent or notification or judicial authorization took place; or (2) was presented with documentation showing that a court waived parental notification requirements or authorized the minor's abortion. Authorizes any parent who suffers harm from a violation of this Act to seek relief in a civil action unless such parent committed an act of incest with the minor. Defines \"abortion\" as the termination of a pregnancy with an intention other than to increase the probability of a live birth, preserve the life or health of the child after live birth, remove a dead unborn child who died as the result of a spontaneous abortion, accidental trauma, or a criminal assault on the pregnant female or her unborn child. Defines \"parent\" to include a guardian, legal custodian, or person standing in loco parentis. Imposes a fine and/or prison term of up to one year on a physician who performs or induces an abortion on an out-of-state minor in violation of parental notification requirements. Requires such physician to give 24-hour actual or constructive notice to a parent of the minor seeking an abortion. Allows an exception if: (1) the physician complies with parental notification requirements in the physician\u2019s state; (2) the physician is given documentation that a court in the minor\u2019s state of residence has waived parental notification or otherwise authorized the minor\u2019s abortion; (3) the minor provides a written statement that she is the victim of sexual abuse, neglect, or physical abuse by a parent and the physician notifies appropriate state officials of such abuse; (4) the abortion is necessary to save the life of the minor (written notice must be given to the minor's parent within 24 hours after the lifesaving abortion is performed): or (5) a person accompanying the minor provides documentation to the physician that such person is the parent of the minor."