"10/27/1999--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Division A: District of Columbia Appropriations - Title I: Fiscal Year 2000 Appropriations - Title II: Tax Reduction - Division B: Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and - Related Agencies Appropriations - Title I (sic): Department of Labor Employment and Training Administration - Title II (sic): Department of Health and Human Services - Title III: Department of Education - Title IV: Related Agencies - Title V: General Provisions - Division C: Rescissions and Offsets \n    Division\n    A\n     - \n    District of Columbia Appropriations\n    District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 2000 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 2000 Appropriations\n    Makes appropriations for the District of Columbia for FY 2000, including amounts for the Federal payments: (1) for District of Columbia Resident Tuition Support; (2) for incentives for adoption of children; (3) to the Citizens Complaint Review Board; (4) to the Department of Human Services; (5) to the District of Columbia Corrections Trustee Operations; (6) to the District of Columbia Courts; (7) for Defender Services in District of Columbia Courts; (9) to the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia; (10) to the Children's National Medical Center; and (11) for the Metropolitan Police Department. Appropriates specified sums out of the District's general fund (and other funds, in some cases) for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) the public education system; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) receivership programs; (8) workforce investments; (9) a reserve to be established by the Chief Financial Officer of the District and the District of Columbia Financial Responsibility and Management Assistance Authority (Authority); (10) the Authority itself; (11) repayment of certain loans and interest; (12) repayment of General Fund Recovery Debt; (13) payment of interest on short-term borrowing; (14) lease payments in accordance with the Certificates of Participation involving the land site underlying the building located at One Judiciary Square; and (15) optical and dental insurance payments. Directs the Chief Financial Officer to: (1) finance projects totaling $20 million in local funds (Productivity Bank) that result in cost savings or additional revenues by an amount equal to such financing; (2) make reductions totaling $20 million in local funds to be allocated to projects funded through the Productivity Bank that produce such cost savings or additional revenues; and (3) make reductions of specified amounts for general supply schedule savings and for management reform savings, in local funds to one or more of the appropriation headings in this Act. Requires quarterly reports by the Mayor on such financial activities to specified congressional committees. Appropriates specified sums for: (1) the Water and Sewer Authority and the Washington Aqueduct; (2) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; (3) the Sports and Entertainment Commission; (4) the D.C. Health and Hospitals Public Benefit Corporation; (5) the D.C. Retirement Board; (6) the Correctional Industries Fund; (7) the Washington Convention Center Enterprise Fund; and (8) capital outlay (including rescissions). Sets forth authorizations as well as limitations and prohibitions on the uses of appropriations under this Act, and directives to the Mayor, the Council, and the Board of Education identical with or similar to those in the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1999. \n    Section\n    130\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the expenditure of funds appropriated under this Act for abortions except where the mother's life would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in cases of rape or incest.  \n    Section\n    131\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available by this Act to implement or enforce: (1) the District of Columbia Health Care Benefits Expansion Act of 1992 (also known as the District Domestic Partner Act); or (2) any system of registration of unmarried, cohabiting couples for purposes of extending them benefits on the same basis as such benefits are extended to legally married couples.  \n    Section\n    142\n     - \n    \n    Requires recipients of funds under this Act to comply with the Buy American Act. Expresses the sense of Congress that, to the greatest extent practicable, such funds should be used to purchase only American-made equipment and products. Declares a person ineligible to receive any contract made with funds provided under this Act if the person has been judicially determined to have intentionally affixed a \"Made in America\" label to a product that is not U.S.-made.  \n    Section\n    147\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act to transfer or confine inmates classified above the medium security level, as defined by the Federal Bureau of Prisons classification instrument, to the Northeast Ohio Correctional Center located in Youngstown, Ohio.  \n    Section\n    149\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Chief Financial Officer, by November 1, 1999, or within 30 calendar days after the enactment of this Act, to submit to the appropriate congressional committees, the Mayor, and the Authority, a revised appropriated funds operating budget for all District government agencies for such fiscal year that is in the total amount of the approved appropriation and that realigns budgeted data for personal services and other-than-personal-services, respectively, with anticipated actual expenditures.  \n    Section\n    150\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act for: (1) any program of distributing sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug; or (2) rental payments under a lease for the use of real property by the District government, or to enter a lease, or purchase or manage real property for the District, unless specified conditions are met.  \n    Section\n    152\n     - \n    \n    Terminates such conditioned prohibition on the use of funds contained in this Act to lease, purchase, or manage real property for the District if the District enacts legislation to reform the practices and procedures governing such activities and disposition of its surplus real property.  \n    Section\n    153\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Student Loan Marketing Association Reorganization Act of 1996 to provide funding for public charter school construction and repair in the District. Sets aside a specified amount for use as a credit enhancement fund for such schools.  \n    Section\n    154\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Mayor, the Authority, and the Superintendent of Schools to implement a process to dispose of excess public school real property within 90 days of the enactment of this Act.  \n    Section\n    155\n     - \n    \n    Amends the District of Columbia School Reform Act of 1995 to: (1) extend the Act indefinitely; and (2) grant sibling preference to applicants seeking enrollment in public charter schools in the District.  \n    Section\n    157\n     - \n    \n    Transfers from the Authority to the District a specified sum for: (1) severance payments to individuals separated from employment during FY 2000; (2) expanded contracting authority of the Mayor; and (3) the implementation of a system of managed competition among public and private providers of goods and services by and on behalf of the District.  \n    Section\n    158\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Authority, working with the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Director of the National Park Service, to carry out a project to complete all design requirements and all requirements for compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act for construction of expanded lane capacity for the Fourteenth Street Bridge. Transfers a specified limited amount to the Authority from the District's dedicated highway fund for the project.  \n    Section\n    159\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Mayor to carry out, through the Army Corps of Engineers, an Anacostia River environmental cleanup program.  \n    Section\n    160\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Victims of Violent Crime Compensation Act of 1996 (the Act) to: (1) prohibit payment of administrative costs from the Crime Victims Compensation Fund; and (2) limit the use of such Fund to compensation and attorneys' fees awarded under the Act. Provides that: (1) the Fund shall be maintained as a separate Fund in the Treasury; (2) all amounts deposited to the credit of the Fund are appropriated without fiscal year limitation to make payments as authorized under the Act; and (3) the Fund shall also consist of any other fines, fees, penalties, or assessments that the Court determines necessary to carry out the purposes of the Fund. Transfers any unobligated balance existing in the Fund in excess of $250,000 as of the end of each fiscal year (beginning with FY 2000) to miscellaneous receipts of the Treasury within 30 days after the end of the fiscal year. Ratifies any payments made from or deposits made to the Fund on or after April 9, 1997, to the extent such payments and deposits are authorized under the Act.  \n    Section\n    161\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act 60 days after its enactment to pay the salary of any chief financial officer of any District government office who has not filed a certification with the Mayor and the Chief Financial Officer of the District that the officer understands the duties and restrictions applicable as a result of this Act or its amendments.  \n    Section\n    162\n     - \n    \n    Requires the proposed FY 2001 budget of the District government to specify potential adjustments that might become necessary in the event that the management savings achieved by the District during the year do not meet the level of management savings projected.  \n    Section\n    163\n     - \n    \n    Requires any document showing the budget for a District government office that contains specified labels categorizing activities to include descriptions of the types of activities covered and a detailed breakdown of the amount allocated for each one.  \n    Section\n    164\n     - \n    \n    Provides that, in using the funds made available for improvements to specified Federal properties in the Southwest Waterfront of the District, any District government entity may place orders for engineering and construction and related services with the Chief of Engineers of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers on a reimbursable and, if applicable, contractual basis. Transfers to the Mayor from the Authority a specified amount from the escrow account held by the Authority for the District's infrastructure needs to be used by the Mayor for such improvements. Requires the Mayor to submit quarterly reports to specified congressional committees on the status of the improvements until they are completed.  \n    Section\n    165\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of Congress that the District should not impose or take into consideration any height, square footage, set-back, or other construction or zoning requirements in authorizing the issuance of industrial revenue bonds for a project of the American National Red Cross at 2025 E Street Northwest, Washington, D.C., because this project is subject to approval of the National Capital Planning Commission and the Commission of Fine Arts.  \n    Section\n    166\n     - \n    \n    Amends the National Capital Revitalization and Self-Government Improvement Act of 1997 (the Act) to permit the District of Columbia Offender Supervision, Defender, and Courts Services Agency to carry out sex offender registration functions in the District. Authorizes the Pretrial Services, Parole, Adult Probation and Offender Supervision Trustee appointed under the Act to exercise, during the Agency's transition to full operation, the powers and functions of the Agency relating to sex offender registration, but only upon the Trustee's certification that the Trustee is able to assume such powers and functions. Vests such authority in the Metropolitan Police Department until the Trustee makes such certification.  \n    Section\n    167\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds contained in this Act to enact or carry out any law, rule, or regulation to legalize or otherwise reduce penalties associated with the possession, use, or distribution of any schedule I substance under the Controlled Substances Act or any tetrahydrocannabinols (THC) derivative. Provides that the Legalization of Marijuana for Medical Treatment Initiative of 1998, also known as Initiative 59, approved by the electors of the District on November 3, 1998, shall not take effect.  \n    Section\n    168\n     - \n    \n    Transfers to the District from the Authority a specified amount for the Mayor to provide offsets against local taxes for a commercial revitalization program to be available in enterprise zones and low and moderate income areas in the District, provided that the Mayor uses Federal commercial revitalization proposals introduced in Congress as a guideline.  \n    Section\n    169\n     - \n    \n    Amends the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to transfer to the Mayor the Authority's duty with respect to annually developing and submitting to specified congressional committees a performance accountability plan for the District government, and annually reporting to such committees on the performance of the government's activities.  \n    Section\n    170\n     - \n    \n    Declares the sense of Congress that, in considering the District of Columbia's FY 2001 budget, the Congress will take into consideration progress or lack of progress in addressing specified issues, including crime, access to drug abuse treatment, management of parolees and pretrial violent offenders, education, improvement in basic city services, application for and management of Federal grants, and indicators of child well-being.  \n    Section\n    171\n     - \n    \n    Urges the Mayor, before using Federal Medicaid payments to Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH) to serve a small number of childless adults, to consider the recommendations of the Health Care Development Commission.  \n    Section\n    172\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to Congress on the law enforcement, court, prison, probation, parole, and other components of the criminal justice system of the District of Columbia in order to identify the components most in need of additional resources, including financial, personal, and management resources.  \n    Section\n    173\n     - \n    \n    Declares that nothing in this Act bars the District of Columbia Corporation Counsel from reviewing or commenting on briefs in private lawsuits, or from consulting with officials of the District government regarding such lawsuits.  \n    Section\n    174\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to implement the notice of decision approved by the National Capital Regional Director, dated April 7, 1999, including issuance of right-of-way permits at market rates within seven days after enactment of this Act, subject to judicial review. Declares that any Federal agency receiving an application to locate a wireless communications antenna on Federal property in the District of Columbia or surrounding area over which the Federal agency exercises control shall take final action on the application, including action on the issuance of right-of-way permits at market rates.  \n    Section\n    175\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 (the Act) to provide that out of funds appropriated to the Department of Housing and Urban Development for Community Development block grants a specified amount shall be available as a grant for the Special Olympics in Anchorage, Alaska, to develop the Ben Boeke Arena and Hilltop Ski Area. Increases the amount made available for grants for the Economic Development Initiative for making individual grants for targeted economic investments. Deems the statement of the managers of the committee of conference accompanying the Act to be amended under the heading \"Community Development Block Grants\" to include specified targeted economic development initiatives. Makes specified funds made available for Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to redevelop the Sun Co. - LTV Steel Site in Hazelwood, Pennsylvania, available to the Department of Economic Development in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the development of a technology based project in the county. Amends the Act and the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 to extend the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development's authority through FY 2000 with respect to mortgage risk-sharing agreements and housing finance agency pilot demonstration programs. Amends the Act and the Public and Assisted Housing Drug Elimination Act of 1990 to revise the definition of \"federally-assisted low-income housing\" to exclude housing assisted under the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act. Provides that such amendment shall be construed to have taken effect on October 21, 1998.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Tax Reduction\n    Commends the District of Columbia for its action to reduce taxes. Ratifies the Service Improvement and Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Support Act of 1999.  \n    Division\n    B\n     - \n    Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations\n    Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000 - Makes appropriations for FY 2000 for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education and related agencies. \n    Title\n    I (sic)\n     - \n    Department of Labor\n    Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 2000 - Makes appropriations for FY 2000 to the Department of Labor for: (1) training and employment services; (2) community service employment for older Americans; (3) Federal unemployment benefits and allowances; (4) State unemployment insurance and employment service operations; (5) advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and other trust funds; (6) employment and training program administration; (7) the Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; (8) the Employment Standards Administration; (9) certain special benefits; (10) the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund; (11) the Occupational Safety and Health Administration; (12) the Mine Safety and Health Administration; (13) the Bureau of Labor Statistics; (14) departmental management; (15) the Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training; and (16) the Office of Inspector General. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Health and Human Services\n    Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 2000 - Makes appropriations for FY 2000 to the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for: (1) the Health Resources and Services Administration; (2) the Medical Facilities Guarantee and Loan Fund for Federal interest subsidies for medical facilities; (3) health education assistance loans; (4) the Vaccine Injury Compensation Program Trust Fund; (5) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; (6) the National Institutes of Health, including amounts for the John E. Fogarty International Center, the National Library of Medicine, the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, the Office of the Director, and buildings and facilities; (7) the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; (8) the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; (9) the Health Care Financing Administration for grants to States for Medicaid, payments to health care trust funds, program management, and the Health Maintenance Organization Loan and Loan Guarantee Fund; (10) the Administration for Children and Families for family support payments to States; (11) low income home energy assistance; (12) refugee and entrant assistance; (13) the child care and development block grant; (14) the social services block grant; (15) children and families services programs; (16) promoting safe and stable families pursuant to a specified provision of the Social Security Act; (17) payments to States for foster care and adoption assistance; (18) the Administration on Aging; (19) the Office of the Secretary for general departmental management; (20) the Office of Inspector General; (21) the Office for Civil Rights; (22) policy research; (23) retirement pay and medical benefits for Public Health Service commissioned officers; and (24) activities related to countering potential biological, disease, and chemical threats to civilian populations. Rescinds FY 2000 funds for a sample study of child welfare. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title. \n    Section\n    209\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being made available under title X (population research and voluntary family planning) of the Public Health Service Act unless the award applicant certifies to the Secretary of HHS that it encourages family participation in the decision of minors to seek family planning services and provides counseling to minors on resisting attempts to coerce them into engaging in sexual activities.  \n    Section\n    211\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to carry out the Medicare+Choice program if the Secretary of HHS denies participation in such program to an otherwise eligible entity (including a Provider Sponsored Organization) because the entity informs the Secretary that it will not provide, pay for, provide coverage of, or provide referrals for abortions.  \n    Section\n    212\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Public Health Service Act to require State allotments under block grants for community health services for FY 2000 to be at least the amount the State received for FY 1998. Provides a specified minimum State allotment for FY 2000 under block grants for substance abuse prevention and treatment as well.  \n    Section\n    214\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 to extend through FY 2000 the authorization of admission into the United States of a specified number of refugees from the independent states of the former Soviet Union, Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania based on religious persecution owing to participation in the Ukrainian Catholic or Orthodox churches. Makes September 30, 2000, the latest allowable entry date for specified aliens from the former Soviet Union, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia for purposes of qualifying for adjustment of status.  \n    Section\n    215\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds provided in any Act making FY 2000 appropriations for the implementation in Arizona or in Kansas City, Missouri or Kansas, of the Medicare Competitive Pricing Demonstration Project operated by the Secretary of HHS under the Balanced Budget Act of 1997.  \n    Section\n    217\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of HHS to study and report to Congress on: (1) the reasons why, and the appropriateness of the fact that, the geographic adjustment factor used in determining the amount of payment for physicians' services under Medicare is less for services provided in New Mexico than for those provided in Arizona, Colorado, and Texas; and (2) the effect that the level of the geographic cost-of-practice adjustment factor has on the recruitment and retention of physicians in small rural States.  \n    Section\n    218\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used to withhold substance abuse funding from a State pursuant to Public Health Service Act provisions for withholding funds from States that are not in compliance with specified requirements prohibiting the sale of tobacco products to minors if a State certifies to the Secretary of HHS that it will commit additional State funds to ensure compliance with State laws prohibiting such sales.  \n    Section\n    219\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available under this title to carry out the transmittal of August 13, 1997 (relating to self-administered drugs), of the Deputy Director of the Division of Acute Care of the Health Care Financing Administration to regional offices of the Administration or to promulgate any regulation or other transmittal or policy directive that imposes or clarifies the imposition of a restriction on the coverage of injectable drugs under Medicare beyond the restrictions applied before the date of such transmittal.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Department of Education\n    Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2000 - Makes appropriations for FY 2000 to the Department of Education for: (1) education reform; (2) education for the disadvantaged; (3) impact aid; (4) school improvement activities; (5) reading excellence; (6) Indian education; (7) bilingual and immigrant education; (8) special education; (9) rehabilitation services and disability research; (10) special institutions for persons with disabilities, including the American Printing House for the Blind, the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University; (11) vocational and adult education; (12) student financial assistance; (13) the Federal Family Education Loan program account; (14) higher education; (15) Howard University; (16) the college housing and academic facilities loans program; (17) the historically Black college and university capital financing program account; (18) education research, statistics, and improvement; (19) departmental management; (20) the Office for Civil Rights; and (21) the Office of the Inspector General. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title. \n    Section\n    301\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used to: (1) transport teachers or students in order to overcome racial imbalance in any school or to carry out a racial desegregation plan; or (2) prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in public schools.  \n    Section\n    306\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 to reduce to 35 percent the Federal share available for Even Start family literacy programs in any year after the eighth year of receiving assistance. Removes a provision which limits the receipt of such assistance to a period of eight years.  \n    Section\n    307\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary of Education to restore the eligibility of Jacksonville College in Texas to participate in the Pell Grant program. Directs the College to implement a default management plan satisfactory to the Secretary.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 2000 to the: (1) Armed Forces Retirement Home; (2) Corporation for National and Community Service; (3) Corporation for Public Broadcasting; (4) Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; (5) Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission; (6) Office of Library Services; (7) Medicare Payment Advisory Commission; (8) National Commission on Libraries and Information Science; (9) National Council on Disability; (10) National Education Goals Panel; (11) National Labor Relations Board; (12) National Mediation Board; (13) Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; (14) Railroad Retirement Board for the dual benefits payments account, Federal payments to the railroad retirement accounts, administration, and the Office of Inspector General; (15) Social Security Administration for payments to the social security trust funds, special benefits for disabled coal miners, the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) Program, administrative expenses, and the Office of Inspector General; and (16) U.S. Institute of Peace. Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth authorized uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this Act. \n    Section\n    505\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds appropriated under this Act for programs to distribute sterile needles or syringes for the injection of illegal drugs.  \n    Section\n    506\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth Buy American requirements.  \n    Section\n    508\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds appropriated under this Act from being expended for abortions or for health benefits coverage that includes coverage of abortion, except in cases where the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest or where a woman suffers from a physical condition that would, as certified by a physician, place her in danger of death unless an abortion is performed.  \n    Section\n    510\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available in this Act for: (1) the creation of a human embryo for research purposes; or (2) research in which a human embryo is destroyed or knowingly subjected to risk of injury or death greater than that allowed for research on fetuses in utero under Federal regulations and the Public Health Service Act.  \n    Section\n    511\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available in this Act for activities to promote the legalization of a controlled substance unless there is significant medical evidence of a therapeutic advantage to the use of such substance or that federally-sponsored trials are being conducted to determine such advantage.  \n    Section\n    514\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available in this Act to promulgate a final standard under the Social Security Act providing for a unique health identifier for an individual (except in an individual's capacity as an employer or health care provider) until legislation is enacted specifically approving the standard.  \n    Section\n    515\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1997 to extend the availability of certain voluntary separation incentives for employees of the Railroad Retirement Board and its Office of Inspector General.  \n    Section\n    516\n     - \n    \n    Amends the United States-Mexico Border Health Commission Act to require the President to appoint the U.S. members of the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission and to attempt to conclude an agreement with Mexico providing for the establishment of such Commission. Eliminates a Commission duty to formulate recommendations regarding a method by which the government of one country could reimburse an entity in the other country for the cost of a health care service provided by the entity to a citizen of the first country who is unable to pay for the service.  \n    Section\n    517\n     - \n    \n    Provides that the applicable time limitations with respect to the giving of notice of injury and the filing of a claim for compensation for disability or death under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act for injuries sustained as a result of exposure to a nitrogen or sulfur mustard agent in the performance of official duties as an employee at the Department of the Army's Edgewood Arsenal before March 20, 1944, shall not begin to run until this Act's enactment date.  \n    Section\n    519\n     - \n    \n    Cancels $121 million of the funds made available in this Act for salaries and expenses to be allocated by the Office of Management and Budget.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Early Detection, Diagnosis, and Interventions For Newborns and Infants With Hearing Loss\n    Mandates grants or cooperative agreements to: (1) develop statewide newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation and intervention programs and systems; and (2) provide technical assistance to State agencies to complement an intramural program and to conduct applied research related to newborn and infant hearing screening, evaluation, and intervention programs and systems. Requires the National Institutes of Health to continue a program of research and development on the efficacy of new screening techniques and technology. Mandates Federal coordination and collaboration with State and local agencies, consumer groups, national medical, health, and education specialty organizations, deaf or hard-of-hearing individuals and their families, qualified professional personnel, and related commercial industries. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Division\n    C\n     - \n    Rescissions and Offsets\n    Rescinds an amount equal to .97 of the budget authority provided: (1) for FY 2000 for any discretionary account in any FY 2000 appropriation law; (2) in any advance appropriation for FY 2000 for any discretionary account in any prior fiscal year appropriation law; and (3) in any FY 2000 appropriation law that would have been estimated as increasing direct spending for FY 2000 under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) were it included in a law other than an appropriation law and not designated as an emergency requirement. Determines the rate of pay for a Member of Congress, in fiscal years beginning after September 30, 1999, as if the FY 2000 pay adjustment had resulted in a rate equal to the rate of pay that would otherwise have taken effect if this section had not been enacted reduced by the percentage set forth in this section. \n    Section\n    1002\n     - \n    \n    Amends provisions of the Social Security Act regarding the Federal Parent Locator Service to provide for disclosure to the Secretary of Education of certain information in the National Directory of New Hires on individuals who are in default on certain loans or owe obligations to refund overpayments of grants made under the Higher Education Act. Establishes conditions on such disclosure, including that priority be given to support collection over collection of such loans or grants and that such information be used only for collecting debt owed by individuals whose annualized wage level exceeds $16,000. Permits such information to be used only for collection purposes."