"4/12/2000--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Title I: Levels and Amounts - Title II: Budget Enforcement and Rulemaking - Subtitle A: Budget Enforcement - Subtitle B: Reserve Funds - Subtitle C: Miscellaneous Rulemaking Provisions - Title III: Sense of Congress, House, and Senate Provisions - Subtitle A: Sense of Congress Provisions - Subtitle B: Sense of House Provisions - Subtitle C: Sense of Senate Provisions - Title III (sic): Sense of the Senate Provisions Declares that this resolution revises and replaces the concurrent resolution on the budget for FY 2000. Sets forth the congressional budget for the Government for FY 2001, including the appropriate budgetary levels for FY 2002 through 2005. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Levels and Amounts\n    Lists recommended budgetary levels and amounts, for FY 2000 through 2005, with respect to: (1) Federal revenues; (2) new budget authority; (3) budget outlays; (4) surpluses; (5) public debt; and (6) debt held by the public. Sets forth for such fiscal years specified amounts of revenues and outlays of the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund, including amounts of new budget authority and outlays for administrative expenses. \n    Section\n    102\n     - \n    \n    Lists the appropriate levels of new budget authority and outlays for specified major functional categories for FY 2000 through 2005.  \n    Section\n    103\n     - \n    \n    Directs the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee to report a reconciliation bill by July 14 and September 13, 2000, that consists of changes in law within its jurisdiction sufficient to reduce the total level of revenues by $11.6 billion for FY 2001 and $150 billion for the period of FY 2001 through 2005. Requires the House Ways and Means Committee to report a reconciliation bill no later than July 14, 2000, and September 13, 2000, that consists of changes in laws within its jurisdiction sufficient to reduce the public debt by $7.5 billion and up to $19.1 billion, respectively, for FY 2001.  \n    Section\n    104\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Senate Finance Committee to report a reconciliation bill by July 14 and September 13, 2000, that consists of changes in laws within its jurisdiction sufficient to reduce the total level of revenues by up to $11.6 billion for FY 2001 and $150 billion for the period of FY 2001 through 2005.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Budget Enforcement and Rulemaking\n    \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    Budget Enforcement\n    Expresses the sense of Congress that legislation should be enacted in this congressional session that would enforce the reduction of the public debt assumed in this resolution by the imposition of a statutory limit on such debt or other appropriate means. Makes it out of order in the House or the Senate to consider any revision to this or the FY 2002 concurrent budget resolution (or an amendment or conference report) that sets forth a deficit for any fiscal year. Makes such point of order inapplicable if: (1) the most recent of the Department of Commerce's advance, preliminary, or final reports of real economic growth indicate that the rate of real economic growth for the most recently reported quarter and immediately preceding quarter is less than one percent; or (2) a declaration of war is in effect. Provides that if the social security surplus in FY 2001 is used to finance general Federal Government operations, such amount shall be deducted from the available amount of discretionary spending for FY 2002 for purposes of any concurrent budget resolution. Waives or suspends the point of order under this section in the Senate only by an affirmative three-fifths majority vote. Requires the same majority to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair on such point of order. \n    Section\n    202\n     - \n    \n    Makes it out of order in the House to consider any reported bill or joint resolution (or any amendment or conference report) that would cause a surplus for FY 2001 to be less than the level (as adjusted) set forth in this resolution. Requires the level of the surplus to take into account amounts of allocations and budget aggregates adjusted pursuant to the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.  \n    Section\n    203\n     - \n    \n    Makes it out of order in the House to consider any reported legislation (or amendment or conference report) that contains a directed scorekeeping provision. Defines \"directed scorekeeping\" as the act of directing the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) or the Office of Management and Budget how to estimate any provision providing discretionary new budget authority in a bill or joint resolution making general appropriations for a fiscal year for budgetary enforcement purposes. Provides a point of order against consideration in the House of any reported legislation (or amendment or conference report) that would cause the total level of discretionary advance appropriations provided for fiscal years after 2001 to exceed $23.5 billion (the total level of advance appropriations for FY 2001). Terminates this section on January 1, 2001.  \n    Section\n    204\n     - \n    \n    Provides a point of order in the Senate against consideration of legislation or motions that provide an appropriation of new budget authority for any fiscal year: (1) after the budget year that exceeds $23.5 billion; and (2) subsequent to the year after the budget year. Makes a point of order in the Senate against consideration of legislation (excepting defense or recurrent appropriations) or motions that contain an appropriation of new budget authority for any fiscal year which does not become available upon the later of enactment of such legislation or the first day of that fiscal year. Waives or suspends such points of order only by an affirmative three-fifths majority vote. Requires the same majority to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair. Authorizes the Senate Budget Committee chairman to instruct the Senate Finance Committee to report legislation to reduce debt held by the public in an amount consistent with that provided under section 103 of this resolution. Terminates this section on October 1, 2002.  \n    Section\n    205\n     - \n    \n    Provides that the criteria to be considered in determining whether a proposed expenditure or tax change is an emergency requirement in legislation are whether it is: (1) necessary, essential, or vital; (2) sudden, quickly coming into being, and not building up over time; (3) an urgent, pressing, and compelling need requiring immediate action; (4) unforeseen, unpredictable, and unanticipated; and (5) not permanent, temporary in nature. Requires a committee report or the statement of managers to justify why a requirement should be accorded emergency status if it does not meet such criteria. Strikes emergency requirements in legislation under consideration in the Senate when a point of order is sustained against such requirements. Waives or suspends such point of order only by an by an affirmative three-fifths majority vote. Requires the same majority to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair. Makes such point of order inapplicable to any emergency designation for a provision making discretionary appropriations in the defense category.  \n    Section\n    206\n     - \n    \n    Requires the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if legislation becomes law that increases the discretionary spending limit for FY 2001 set out in the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act), to increase a specified allocation called for in the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 to the appropriate Appropriations Committee and to adjust all other budgetary aggregates and levels contained in this resolution. Prohibits such allocation from exceeding the total budget authority and outlays set forth under such Act.  \n    Section\n    207\n     - \n    \n    Provides a point of order in the Senate against consideration of legislation that exceeds certain discretionary spending limits in the defense and nondefense categories for FY 2001. Makes this section inapplicable if a declaration of war is in effect. Waives or suspends such point of order only by an affirmative three-fifths majority vote. Requires the same majority to sustain an appeal of the ruling of the Chair.  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    Reserve Funds\n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the reconciliation legislation provided for in sections 103 or 104, the Medicare legislation provided for in sections 214 or 215, or any legislation which reduces revenues is vetoed (or does not become law) or the reconciliation or Medicare legislation does not become law by October 1, 2000, to make certain adjustments to the pay-as-you-go scorecard and the level of debt held by the public set forth in this resolution. \n    Section\n    212\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, whenever the Ways and Means Committee or the Finance Committee reports a bill or an amendment or conference report is submitted that would cause the level by which Federal revenues should be reduced, as adjusted, to be exceeded, to increase the levels by which Federal revenues should be reduced by the amount exceeding the level resulting from the measure, with specified limits.  \n    Section\n    213\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman to make certain budget adjustments if the CBO's budget and economic outlook for FY 2001 through 2010 estimates an on-budget surplus for any of FY 2001 through 2005 that exceeds the surplus set forth in the CBO's March 2000 outlook.  \n    Section\n    214\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House Budget Committee chairman, whenever the Ways and Means or Commerce Committees report legislation or an amendment or conference report thereon is submitted that reforms the Medicare program and provides coverage for prescription drugs, to increase the aggregates and allocations of new budget authority (and resulting outlays) by the amount provided by that measure, with specified limits.  \n    Section\n    215\n     - \n    \n    Permits the Senate Budget Committee chairman, whenever the Finance Committee reports legislation or a conference report is submitted that improves: (1) access to prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, to revise committee allocations and other budgetary levels and limits to accommodate such legislation if it will not reduce the on-budget surplus or increase spending by more than $20 billion over the period of FY 2001 through 2005 and will not cause an on-budget deficit in any fiscal year; or (2) the solvency of the Medicare program without the use of new subsidies from the general fund and improves or continues access to prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries, to change committee allocations and other budgetary levels and limits to accommodate such legislation if it will not reduce the on-budget surplus or increase spending by more than $40 billion (less the amount provided by (1)) over the period of FY 2001 through 2005 and will not cause an on-budget deficit in any fiscal year.  \n    Section\n    216\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the House Committee on Agriculture or the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry reports a bill before June 29, 2000 (or an amendment or conference report is submitted), that provides assistance for producers of program and specialty crops, to increase the allocation of budget authority (and resulting outlays) to that committee by the amount provided by such legislation, with limitations.  \n    Section\n    217\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the House Commerce Committee or the Senate Finance Committee reports a bill (or an amendment or conference report is submitted) that facilitates children with disabilities receiving health care at home, to increase the allocation of budget authority (and resulting outlays) to that committee by the amount provided by such legislation, with limitations.  \n    Section\n    218\n     - \n    \n    Permits the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the House or Senate Committee on Armed Services reports the Department of Defense authorization legislation to fund improvements to health care programs for military retirees and their dependents (or an amendment or conference report is submitted), to increase the allocation of budget authority (and resulting outlays) to that committee by the amount provided by such legislation, with limitations, if such legislation will not cause an on-budget deficit.  \n    Section\n    219\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the House Commerce Committee or the Senate Finance Committee reports legislation (or an amendment or conference report is submitted) that accelerates enrollment of uninsured children in Medicaid or the State Children's Health Insurance Program or provides Medicaid coverage for women diagnosed with cervical and breast cancer through the Centers for Disease Control screening program, to increase the allocation of budget authority (and resulting outlays) to that committee by the amount provided by such legislation, with limitations.  \n    Section\n    220\n     - \n    \n    Permits the House or Senate Budget Committee chairman, if the House Agriculture Committee or the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee reports a bill (or an amendment or conference report is submitted) that provides additional resources for counties and complies with this section, to increase the allocation of budget authority (and resulting outlays) to that committee by the amount provided by such legislation, with limitations. Provides that legislation complies if it provides for the stabilization of receipt-based payments to counties that support school and road systems and provides that a portion of those payments would be dedicated toward local investments in Federal lands within the counties.  \n    Section\n    221\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Senate Budget Committee chairman to reduce spending and revenue aggregates and revise committee allocations for legislation that reduces revenues if such legislation will not increase the deficit or decrease the surplus for FY 2001 or for the period of FY 2001 through 2005.  \n    Section\n    222\n     - \n    \n    Provides for the application and effect of changes in allocations and aggregates made pursuant to this resolution.  \n    Subtitle\n    C\n     - \n    Miscellaneous Rulemaking Provisions\n    Requires the joint explanatory statement accompanying the conference report on any concurrent budget resolution in the House to include in its allocation to the Appropriations Committee under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 amounts for the discretionary administrative expenses of the Social Security Administration (SSA) that are off-budget pursuant to the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990. Includes discretionary amounts provided for the SSA in estimates of the level of total new budget authority and total outlays provided by a measure for purposes of applying a point of order under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 against consideration of legislation that would cause an allocation of budget authority to be exceeded. \n    Section\n    232\n     - \n    \n    Provides that for purposes of points of order of this resolution and the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, provisions contained in legislation, amendments, or motions that affect any surplus funds of the Federal reserve banks shall not be scored in the Senate with respect to the levels of budget authority, outlays, or revenues contained in such legislation.  \n    Section\n    233\n     - \n    \n    Provides that provisions contained in an appropriations bill (or related amendment or conference report) that result in increased revenues shall continue not to be scored with respect to the level of budget authority or outlays in such legislation for purposes of points of order under this resolution and the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.   \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Sense of Congress, House, and Senate Provisions\n    \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    Sense of Congress Provisions\n    Expresses the sense of Congress with respect to: (1) funding for graduate medical education for children's hospitals; and (2) the use within the classrooms of funds appropriated for elementary and secondary education programs.  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    Sense of House Provisions\n    Expresses the sense of the House with respect to: (1) the reduction of waste, fraud, and abuse within the Federal Government; (2) funding emergencies; (3) CBO estimates on impacts of proposed Federal regulations on the private sector; (4) biennial budgeting; (5) affordable health care coverage for all Americans and access to home health care for seniors and disabled citizens; (6) full funding of the Medicare+Choice program; (7) Internal Revenue Service consideration of net loss of income in determining proper taxation rates; (8) the National Science Foundation; (9) quality skilled nursing care and the Medicare benefit; (10) funding for special education; (11) the Health Care Financing Administration Medicaid School-Based Administrative Claiming Guide; (12) modification of the Federal tax law to encourage asset-building of the working poor; (13) resources for firefighters and emergency services; and (14) health-related tax relief.  \n    Subtitle\n    C\n     - \n    Sense of the Senate Provisions\n     \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    (sic) Sense of the Senate Provisions\n    Expresses the sense of the Senate with respect to: (1) funding for elementary and secondary education being in proportion to levels authorized in the Educational Opportunities Act; (2) elimination of wasted Federal expenditures and the use of revenue for tax relief or debt reduction; (3) the skilled nursing benefit and Medicare; (4) increased appropriations for veterans' medical care; (5) educational impact aid; (6) tax simplification; (7) antitrust enforcement regarding agriculture mergers and anticompetitive activity; (8) trade support for American farmers; (9) the effects of social security reform on women; (10) the use of the False Claims Act to combat Medicare fraud; (11) funding for the National Guard; (12) protection of the defense readiness accounts; (13) access to information technologies and information technology training to address the digital divide; (14) funding for certain criminal justice programs; (15) public education reform; (16) funding for U.S. international leadership; (17) the HIV-AIDS epidemic; (18) funding for tribal colleges; (19) marriage penalty tax relief legislation; (20) Federal gasoline taxes; (21) prescription drug price disparities; (22) smoke shops and tobacco outlets; (23) investment of social security trust funds; (24) a Medicare prescription drug proposal; (25) funding for programs under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act; (26) enforcement of Federal firearms laws; (27) a proposal to increase the minimum wage; (28) participation of the armed forces in the Thrift Savings Plan; and (29) appropriations for consolidated health centers."