"4/21/1999--Passed House amended. Earthquake Hazards Reduction Authorization Act of 1999 - Amends the Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977 to authorize appropriations to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for earthquake hazards reduction for FY 2000 and 2001. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 and 2001 to the Secretary of the Interior for carrying out, through the Director of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), responsibilities assigned under the Act, with specified amounts available for the Global Seismic Network and the Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee. Makes specified amounts available for FY 2000 and 2001 for a related USGS grant program. Authorizes additional appropriations for FY 2000 and 2001 for a USGS program to develop a prototype real-time seismic warning system. Authorizes appropriations under the Act for FY 2000 and 2001 for National Science Foundation (NSF) engineering and geosciences research and for the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Repeals a provision regarding non-Federal cost sharing for supplemental funds. Requires the USGS Director to: (1) establish an Advanced National Seismic Research and Monitoring System to modernize, standardize, and stabilize the national, regional, and urban seismic monitoring systems in the United States into a coordinated system; and (2) transmit a five-year management plan for the System to Congress. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the NSF Director to establish a Network for Earthquake Engineering Simulation that will upgrade, link, and integrate a system of geographically distributed experimental facilities for earthquake engineering testing of full-sized structures and their components and partial-scale physical models. Authorizes appropriations. Requires the USGS Director to establish a Scientific Earthquake Studies Advisory Committee. Requires the FEMA Director to report to Congress on elements of the earthquake hazards reduction program that specifically address the needs of at-risk populations, including the elderly, persons with disabilities, non-English-speaking families, single-parent households, and the poor. Requires such report to make recommendations for additional legislative authority required to address such needs. Sets forth Buy American requirements with respect to assistance expended by entities under this Act. Expresses the sense of Congress that entities receiving assistance under this Act should purchase only American-made equipment and products with such assistance. Makes persons who have labeled products not made in the United States as \"Made in America\" ineligible for contracts made with funds provided by this Act."