"9/29/2000--Conference report filed in House. TABLE OF CONTENTS: - Title I: Department of the Interior - Title II: Related Agencies - Title III: General Provisions - Title IV: Wildland Fire Emergency Appropriations - Title V: Emergency Supplemental Appropriations - Title VI: User Fees Under Forest System Recreation Residence Program - Title VII: Treatment of Certain Funds for Miner Benefits - Title VIII: Land Conservation, Preservation and Infrastructure Improvement - Title IX: Department of the Treasury Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001 - Makes appropriations for the Department of the Interior and related agencies for FY 2001. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of the Interior\n    Makes appropriations for the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) for: (1) land and resource management; (2) wildland fire management; (3) remedial action of hazardous waste substances; (4) construction; (5) payments in lieu of taxes to local governments; (6) land acquisition; (7) Oregon and California grant lands; (8) range improvements; (9) service charges, deposits, and forfeitures with respect to public lands; and (10) miscellaneous trust funds. Appropriates funds for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service for: (1) resource management; (2) construction; (3) land acquisition; (4) expenses related to carrying out the Endangered Species Act of 1973; (5) the National Wildlife Refuge Fund; (6) expenses related to carrying out the North American Wetlands Conservation Act; (7) the Wildlife Conservation and Appreciation Fund; and (8) expenses related to carrying out the African Elephant Conservation Act, the Asian Elephant Conservation Act of 1997, and the Rhinoceros and Tiger Conservation Act of 1994. Makes appropriations for the National Park Service (NPS) for: (1) the National Park System; (2) the U.S. Park Police; (3) national recreation and preservation activities; (4) expenses related to carrying out the Urban Park and Recreation Recovery Act of 1978; (5) expenses related to carrying out the Historic Preservation Act of 1966 and the Omnibus Parks and Public Lands Management Act of 1996; (6) construction; and (7) land acquisition and State assistance from the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Rescinds specified contract authority to obligate funds from the Land and Water Conservation Fund for FY 2001. Makes appropriations for: (1) the U.S. Geological Survey for surveys, investigations, and research; (2) the Minerals Management Service for royalty and offshore minerals management and oil spill research; (3) the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement for regulation and technology and the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund; (4) the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) for operation of Indian programs, construction, Indian land and water claim settlements and miscellaneous payments to Indians, and Indian guaranteed loans; (5) assistance to U.S. territories and for carrying out the Compacts of Free Association with respect to Micronesia, the Marshall Islands, and Palau; (6) departmental management and the Offices of the Solicitor and the Inspector General; (7) trust programs for Indians; (8) a program for consolidation of fractional interests in Indian lands by direct expenditure or cooperative agreement; and (9) natural resource damage assessment. Sets forth authorized and prohibited uses of specified funds. \n    Section\n    107\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds provided in this title for specified offshore leasing and related activities.  \n    Section\n    112\n     - \n    \n    Bars the NPS from developing a reduced entrance fee program to accommodate non-local travel through a unit. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) to provide for and regulate local non-recreational passage through National Park System units, allowing each unit to develop guidelines and permits for activity appropriate to such unit.  \n    Section\n    116\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the renewal of grazing permits and leases which expire or are transferred until the Secretary completes processing, at which time a permit or lease may be canceled, suspended, or modified to meet requirements of applicable laws and regulations.  \n    Section\n    117\n     - \n    \n    Provides that for purposes of reducing the backlog of Indian probate cases in the Department of the Interior, certain hearing requirements under provisions regarding descent and distribution of Indian lands are deemed satisfied by a proceeding conducted by an Indian probate judge appointed by the Secretary without regard to provisions governing competitive service appointments.  \n    Section\n    118\n     - \n    \n    Allows the Secretary to redistribute any Tribal Priority Allocation funds to alleviate tribal funding inequities by transferring funds to address identified, unmet needs, dual enrollment, overlapping service areas, or inaccurate distribution methodologies. Bars any tribe from receiving a reduction in such funds of more than ten percent in FY 2001. Makes such percentage limitation inapplicable under circumstances of dual enrollment, overlapping service areas, or inaccurate distribution methodologies.  \n    Section\n    119\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds in this Act to establish a new National Wildlife Refuge in the Kankakee River basin that is inconsistent with Army Corps of Engineers' efforts to control flooding and siltation in that area. Requires written certification of such consistency to be submitted to specified congressional committees prior to refuge establishment.  \n    Section\n    120\n     - \n    \n    Names the Great Marsh Trail at the Mason Neck National Wildlife Refuge in Virginia the Joseph V. Gartlan, Jr. Great Marsh Trail.  \n    Section\n    122\n     - \n    \n    Requires amounts provided for tribal priority allocations in Alaska to be provided only to tribes the membership of which on June 1, 2000, is composed of at least 25 individuals who are Natives (as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act) who reside in the village for the tribe. Requires amounts that would have been available for such purposes but for the limitation to be provided to the respective Alaska Native regional nonprofit corporation for the respective region in which a tribe subject to such limitation is located.  \n    Section\n    123\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary to ensure that the lands comprising the Huron Cemetery in Kansas are used only for religious and cultural uses compatible with the use of such lands as a cemetery and as a burial ground.  \n    Section\n    124\n     - \n    \n    Makes funds provided in this Act unavailable for transferring land into trust status for the Shoalwater Bay Indian Tribe in Clark County, Washington, until the tribe and county reach a legally enforceable agreement that addresses the financial impact of new development on the county, school and fire districts, and other local governments and the impact on zoning and development.  \n    Section\n    125\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds provided in this Act to implement specified provisions of the secretarial order entitled \"American Indian Tribal Rights, Federal-Tribal Trust Responsibilities, and the Endangered Species Act.\"  \n    Section\n    126\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds appropriated for the Department of the Interior by any Act to study or implement any plan to drain Lake Powell or to reduce the water level of the Lake below the range of water levels required for the operation of the Glen Canyon Dam.  \n    Section\n    129\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary to designate Anchorage, Alaska, as a port of entry for purposes of Endangered Species Act provisions authorizing importation or exportation of fish, wildlife, or plants at designated ports.  \n    Section\n    130\n     - \n    \n    Amends a provision of law regarding Sitka National Historical Park in Alaska to: (1) adjust the Park boundary; and (2) remove certain limitations on the authorization of appropriations under such law and to authorize such sums as necessary.  \n    Section\n    131\n     - \n    \n    Requires all proceeds of Oil and Gas Lease sale 991, held by the BLM on May 5, 1999, or subsequent lease sales in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska attributable to a specified area subject to withdrawal for Kuukpik Corporation's selection under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to be deposited in a special fund in the Treasury. Makes such fund available to the Secretary to pay the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation and the State of Alaska the amount of their entitlement.  \n    Section\n    132\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to specified lands in Seward Meridian, Alaska, to Harvey R. Redmond.  \n    Section\n    134\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, to provide Dubuque Barge &amp; Fleeting Services, Inc. a notice that identifies parcels of land or interests in land that: (1) are of a value approximately equal to the value of the parcel of a strip of land on the northern half of Mississippi River Island No. 228; and (2) the Secretary would consider acceptable in exchange for all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to that parcel. Includes land or interests in land that would be suitable for inclusion in the Upper Mississippi River Wildlife and Fish Refuge in land or interests in land that may be considered acceptable. Requires the Secretary, after Dubuque offers land or interests in land identified under this section, to convey all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the parcel described under this section in exchange for the land or interests in land offered by Dubuque and to permanently discontinue barge fleeting at the Mississippi River island in Illinois commonly known as Pearl Island.  \n    Section\n    135\n     - \n    \n    Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Secretary should work with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to secure funding for repayment of the judgment in Ramah Navajo Chapter v. Lujan within the budgets of the agencies that did not pay indirect costs to plaintiffs during 1988 to 1993 or paid indirect costs at less than rates provided under the Indian Self-Determination Act during such period.  \n    Section\n    136\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Fish and Wildlife Service to implement a fee schedule to permit a return to the Service for forensic laboratory services provided to non-Department of the Interior entities.  \n    Section\n    137\n     - \n    \n    Excludes certain private lands from the Argus Range Wilderness in the California Desert Conservation Area.  \n    Section\n    138\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to remove certain land from the Columbia National Wildlife Refuge for transfer to the City of Othello, Washington. Requires such property to be used for public housing or other public purposes.  \n    Section\n    141\n     - \n    \n    Designates the visitors center in Chincoteague National Wildlife Refuge on Assateague Island, Virginia, as the Herbert H. Bateman Educational and Administrative Center.  \n    Section\n    144\n     - \n    \n    Validates all conveyances to the city of Valley City, a municipal corporation of Barnes County, North Dakota, of certain lands that formed part of the railroad right-of-way granted to the Northern Pacific Railroad Company. Provides that the United States reserves federally owned mineral rights in such lands, except the right of surface entry to the mineral estate. First Ladies National Historic Site Act of 2000 - Establishes the First Ladies National Historic Site in Canton, Ohio. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into an agreement with the National First Ladies Library under which the Library may operate and maintain the site.  \n    Section\n    146\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary to make grants to contribute funds for the establishment in Springfield, Illinois, of an interpretive center to preserve and make available to the public materials related to the life of President Abraham Lincoln and to provide interpretive and educational services which communicate the meaning of Lincoln's life. Requires the entity selected by the Secretary to receive such grants to submit a plan and design for the center within 18 months after enactment of this Act. Prohibits: (1) providing such a grant until such entity certifies that funds equal to at least double the grant amount have been contributed by non-Federal sources; (2) the use of grant amounts for the maintenance or operation of the center; and (3) the Secretary from being involved in actual operation of the center, except at the request of the operating entity. Authorizes appropriations. Palace of the Governors Annex Act - Requires the Secretary, subject to the availability of appropriations, to make a grant to the State of New Mexico Office of Cultural Affairs to pay 50 percent of the costs of the final design, construction, management, inspection, furnishing, and equipping of the Annex for the Palace of the Governors of the Museum of New Mexico in Santa Fe. Directs the Office, in order to a receive a grant, to: (1) submit a copy of the architectural blueprints for the Annex to the Secretary; and (2) enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Secretary that provides for a competitive bidding process for the construction contract and specifies a completion date. Authorizes appropriations. Conditions appropriations on: (1) the State appropriating at least $8 million to pay costs described by this Act before January 1, 2010; and (2) other non-Federal sources providing funds sufficient to pay the remaining 50 percent non-Federal share of such costs.  \n    Section\n    148\n     - \n    \n    Extends the Southwestern Pennsylvania Heritage Preservation Commission and authorizes appropriations for the Commission through FY 2010.  \n    Section\n    149\n     - \n    \n    Redesignates the Cuyahoga Valley National Recreation Area as the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. National Underground Railroad Freedom Center Act - Authorizes and directs the Secretary to provide financial assistance to the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center, founded in 1995, to pay the Federal share (up to 20 percent of the project budget) of the costs of authorized Center activities. Authorizes the Secretary to assist in the construction of the Center facility and the development of programs and exhibits funded primarily through private and non-Federal funds on property owned by the city of Cincinnati, Hamilton County, and the State of Ohio. Authorizes appropriations. Requires annual reports from the Center to Congress. Amends the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom Act of 1998 to authorize the Secretary of the Interior to make grants for the preservation and restoration of historic buildings or structures associated with the Underground Railroad and for related research to sites, programs, or facilities that have been included in the national network. Requires grants to be matched by equal or greater non-Federal funds. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Section\n    151\n     - \n    \n    Makes an amount available for expenses necessary to reclaim abandoned coal mine sites and for acid mine drainage remediation caused by past coal mining practices in the anthracite region of Pennsylvania.  \n    Section\n    153\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary to carry out a demonstration program to provide grants to Indian tribes for the construction of tribally controlled schools.  \n    Section\n    154\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Administrator of General Services to sell all right, title, and interest of the United States in specified improvements and equipment situated at the White River Oil Shale Mine in Utah. Makes sale proceeds available to reimburse the Administrator for the direct costs of the sale and the BLM (Utah State office) for costs of closing and rehabilitating the Mine.  \n    Section\n    155\n     - \n    \n    Designates the Blue Ridge Parkway headquarters building located at 199 Hemphill Knob in Asheville, North Carolina, as the Gary E. Everhardt Headquarters Building.  \n    Section\n    156\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds in any Act by the Secretary to promulgate final rules to revise regulations regarding surface management, except final rules to amend such regulations which are not inconsistent with the recommendations contained in the National Research Council report entitled \"Hardrock Mining on Federal Lands\" so long as these regulations are also not inconsistent with statutory authorities. Wheeling National Heritage Area Act of 2000 - Establishes the Wheeling National Heritage Area in Wheeling, West Virginia. Makes the Wheeling National Heritage Corporation the management entity for the Area, which shall implement and coordinate the recommendations contained in the Plan for the Wheeling National Heritage Area dated August 1992 and conserve and interpret historic and cultural resources of the Area. Authorizes the Secretary to provide technical assistance to the management entity and make grants and cooperative agreements to and with any person. Authorizes appropriations. Prohibits grants or assistance under this Act after September 30, 2015.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for the Department of Agriculture for the Forest Service for: (1) forest and rangeland research; (2) State and private forestry; (3) the National Forest System; (4) wildland fire management; (5) capital improvement and maintenance; (6) land acquisition; (7) range rehabilitation and improvement; (8) gifts, donations and bequests for forest and rangeland research; and (9) management of Federal lands in Alaska for subsistence uses. Appropriates an amount for the Southeast Alaska Economic Disaster Fund for distribution to the city of Craig. Defers a certain amount of funds made available for obligation in prior years for Department of Energy (DOE) clean coal technology projects until FY 2002. Makes appropriations for DOE for: (1) fossil energy research and development activities; (2) engineering studies to determine the cost of development, the predicted rate and quantity of petroleum recovery, the methodology, and equipment specifications for development of Shannon Formation at Naval Petroleum Reserve Numbered 3, utilizing a below-the-reservoir production method; (3) payment to the State of California for the State Teachers' Retirement Fund from the Elk Hills School Lands Fund; (4) energy conservation activities;(5) economic regulation activities of the Office of Hearings and Appeals; (6) the Strategic Petroleum Reserve; and (7) the Energy Information Administration. Rescinds specified amounts for alternative fuels production. Makes unobligated funds remaining from prior years available for naval petroleum and oil shale reserve activities. Makes appropriations for the Department of Health and Human Services for the Indian Health Service and Indian health facilities. Makes appropriations for: (1) the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation; (2) the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development; (3) the Smithsonian Institution, including amounts for repair and restoration of facilities owned or occupied by the Smithsonian and for construction; (4) the National Gallery of Art, including an amount for repair and restoration of facilities owned or occupied by the National Gallery; (5) operations, maintenance, and construction expenses of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts; (6) carrying out the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968; (7) the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA); (8) the National Endowment for the Humanities; (9) the Institute of Museum and Library Services; (10) Challenge America grants administered by the NEA; (11) the Commission of Fine Arts; (12) national capital arts and cultural affairs; (13) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; (14) the National Capital Planning Commission; (15) the Holocaust Memorial Council; and (16) the Presidio trust. Sets forth provisions regarding uses of, and limitations on, funds appropriated under this title.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth limitations on the use of funds under this Act. \n    Section\n    308\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for: (1) planning or offering timber from giant sequoias on BLM or Forest System lands for sale in a manner different than such sales were conducted in FY 2000; (2) entering into a concession contract (by the NPS) which provides for the removal of the underground lunchroom at Carlsbad Caverns National Park; (3) the AmeriCorps program unless the relevant agencies of the Departments of the Interior and Agriculture follow appropriate reprogramming guidelines; (4) demolishing the bridge between Jersey City, New Jersey, and Ellis Island or preventing pedestrian use of such bridge; and (5) accepting or processing applications for a patent for mining or mill site claims located under the general mining laws, unless the Secretary takes specified actions.  \n    Section\n    313\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretaries of Agriculture and the Interior to limit competition for watershed restoration project contracts as part of the President's Forest Plan for the Pacific Northwest to individuals and entities in timber-dependent areas in Washington, Oregon, northern California, and Alaska that have been affected by reduced timber harvesting on Federal lands.  \n    Section\n    316\n     - \n    \n    Bars the use of funds made available in any Act to designate any portion of Canaveral National Seashore in Brevard County, Florida, as a clothing-optional area or area in which public nudity is permitted if such designation would be contrary to county ordinance.  \n    Section\n    317\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Chairperson of the NEA to: (1) award grants only for literature, National Heritage, or American Jazz Masters fellowships; and (2) establish procedures to ensure that no funding provided through a grant, except one made to a State or local arts agency or regional group, may be used to make a grant to any other individual or organization to conduct activities independent of the grant recipient. Prohibits NEA grants from being used for seasonal support to a group unless the application is specific to the contents of the season.  \n    Section\n    319\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Chairperson of the NEA to establish a grant category for programs that are of national impact or availability or are able to tour several States. Prohibits the Chairperson from making grants exceeding 15 percent, in the aggregate, of NEA funds appropriated by this Act, to any single State, excluding grants made under this section.  \n    Section\n    320\n     - \n    \n    Establishes the Forest Counties Payments Committee, which shall terminate three years after enactment of this Act, to develop recommendations to ensure that States and counties in which Federal lands are situated receive adequate Federal payments for public education and other public purposes. Requires the Secretary of Agriculture, at the request of the Executive Director of the Committee, to provide funding for the Committee for FY 2001.  \n    Section\n    328\n     - \n    \n    Sets forth requirements for the sale of timber in Region 10 of the Forest Service, including those regarding the volume of western red cedar timber available for processors.  \n    Section\n    329\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to propose or issue rules or orders for implementing the Kyoto Protocol.  \n    Section\n    330\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture to pilot test joint permitting and leasing programs, subject to annual congressional review, and promulgate special rules to test the feasibility of issuing unified permits, applications, and leases.  \n    Section\n    331\n     - \n    \n    Allows the Secretary of Agriculture to permit the Colorado State Forest Service to perform watershed restoration and protection services on National Forest System lands when similar and complementary watershed restoration and protection services are being performed by the State Forest Service on adjacent State or private lands.  \n    Section\n    333\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Forest Service to review Forest Service campground concessions policy to determine if modifications can be made to Forest Service contracts for campgrounds so that such concessions are exempted from the Service Contract Act. Requires the Forest Service to offer such exemptions in FY 2001.  \n    Section\n    335\n     - \n    \n    Amends the National Energy Conservation Policy Act to change one of the conditions under which Federal agencies may enter into multiyear energy savings performance contracts for up to 25 years, without funding of cancellation charges before cancellation, to apply a certain notification requirement to contracts with a cancellation ceiling in excess of $10 million (currently, $750,000).  \n    Section\n    336\n     - \n    \n    Extends the authority to collect fees under the recreational fee demonstration program through FY 2002. Makes funds available in accounts established under such program through FY 2005.  \n    Section\n    337\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds in this Act by the Secretary to issue a prospecting permit for hardrock mineral exploration on Mark Twain National Forest land in the Current River-Jack's Fork River Eleven Point Watershed.  \n    Section\n    338\n     - \n    \n    Expands Forest Service authority to enter into stewardship and end result contracts to authorize an additional 28 contracts, with at least nine allocated to Region 1 and three to Region 6.  \n    Section\n    340\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available in this Act by the Secretaries of the Interior or Agriculture to implement a final rule for estimating fair market value land use rental fees for fiberoptic communications rights-of-way on Federal lands that amends the linear right-of-way rental fee schedule published on July 8, 1987. Requires the Secretaries, in determining such fees, to use the rates contained in the linear right-of-way rental fee schedules in place on May 1, 2000.  \n    Section\n    341\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to limit competition for fire and fuel treatment and watershed restoration contracts in the Giant Sequoia National Monument and the Sequoia National Forest. Gives employment preference to dislocated and displaced workers in Tulare, Kern, and Fresno Counties, California, for work associated with the establishment of the Giant Sequoia National Monument.  \n    Section\n    345\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits the use of funds made available by this Act to close permanently an aircraft landing strip on Federal land administered by the Secretaries of the Interior or Agriculture that is commonly known and consistently used for aircraft landing and departure activities without public notice, consultation with State and Federal aviation officials, and the consent of the Federal Aviation Administration. Considers a landing strip to be closed permanently if the intended duration of the closure is more than 180 days in any calendar year.  \n    Section\n    346\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Columbia River Gorge National Scenic Area Act to set forth appraisal requirements for land within special management areas acquired or conveyed under such Act. Terminates the application of certain special rules pertaining to land acquisition in special management areas and nonapplicability of land use ordinances to land offered for acquisition after March 31, 2000. Provides for notice of the amendments made by this section to private landowners in the special management areas. Extends the time frame in which the Secretary is authorized to make payments to local governments for lands acquired within such areas.  \n    Section\n    347\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to convey to Kern County, California, four parcels of land (known as Camp Owen, Wofford Heights Park, the French Gulch maintenance yard, and Kernville Fish Hatchery) under the jurisdiction of the Forest Service in Kern County in exchange for: (1) approximately 52 acres of Greenhorn Mountain Park in Kern County for inclusion in Sequoia National Forest; (2) a replacement storage facility (for the French Gulch maintenance yard facility) at the Greenhorn Ranger District Lake Isabella Maintenance Yard property; and (3) a cash equalization payment specified by the Secretary. Directs the County, upon receipt of such lands, to grant an easement and to record such easement in the appropriate office for permitted or licensed uses of those lands that are unrecorded as of the date of such conveyance.  \n    Section\n    348\n     - \n    \n    Requires the Secretary to cause to be established an advisory group to provide expert advice and counsel to the Director of the National Energy Technology Laboratory (NETL) with respect to NETL research and development activities.  \n    Section\n    349\n     - \n    \n    Appropriates an amount from the Land and Water Conservation Fund for the Umpqua Land Exchange Project (ULEP). Makes such amount available to the Foundation for Voluntary Land Exchanges to complete a Final Land Ownership Adjustment Plan for the Coast Range-Umpqua River Basin. Requires the Secretary and the Foundation to report to specified congressional committees on land exchanges or purchases identified to implement the Plan. Directs the Secretary to consummate land exchanges necessary to implement the Plan.  \n    Section\n    350\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Indian Health Service to provide additional contract health service funds to Ketchikan Indian Corporation's recurring budget for hospital-related services for patients of the Corporation and the Organized Village of Saxman. Boise Laboratory Replacement Act of 2000 - Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to sell or exchange the Boise (Idaho) laboratory (laboratory) site (as defined by this Act), and use the resultant funds to acquire land and facilities to: (1) co-locate the laboratory with one of the Boise-area State institutions of higher learning; (2) replace other laboratory functions; and (3) acquire other land or interests in Idaho. Grants right of first refusal for the laboratory site to the University of Idaho or a related nonprofit organization, and provides, if such option is exercised, for Federal cooperation with the University to develop a multiagency research and education facility at such site.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Wildland Fire Emergency Appropriations\n    Makes additional amounts available for BLM and Forest Service wildland fire management. Authorizes the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture, in expending funds provided under this title for hazardous fuels reduction, to conduct fuel reduction treatments on Federal lands using all available contracting and hiring authorities. Requires the Secretaries to publish in the Federal Register lists of urban wildland interface communities within the vicinity of Federal lands that are at high risk from wildfire, including those excluded from hazardous fuel reduction treatment, and to identify reasons why no treatments are being prepared for communities that are excluded. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to publish in the Federal Register the Forest Service's Cohesive Strategy for Protecting People and Sustaining Resources in Fire-Adapted Ecosystems . Requires funds to be used as necessary by the Secretaries of the Interior, Agriculture, and Commerce and the Council of Environmental Quality to implement expedited procedures for hazardous fuel reduction and post-burn treatments on Federal lands.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations\n    Makes additional funds available for: (1) BLM management of lands and resources; (2) Fish and Wildlife Service resource management and construction; (3) NPS construction to repair sites damaged by natural disasters; (4) Geological Survey surveys, investigations, and research for repair and replacement of stream monitoring equipment and facilities damaged by natural disasters; (5) BIA operation of Indian programs for repair of the Yakama Nation's Signal Peak Road; (6) the Office of Special Trustee for American Indians for unanticipated trust reform projects and costs relating to the Cobell litigation; and (7) the Forest Service for the Alaska Railroad and expenses from windstorm damage in the National Forest System.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    User Fees Under Forest System Recreation Residence Program\n    Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 2000 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, to ensure that the basis and procedure for calculating cabin user fees on National Forest System lands results in a fee that reflects a lot's market value and regional and local economic influences. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) appraisal requirements and right of second appraisals; (2) cabin user fees and annual adjustments; and (3) right of appeal and judicial review.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Treatment of Certain Funds for Miner Benefits\n    Requires interest credited to the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund (Fund) for FY 1992 through 1995 not transferred to the United Mine Workers of America Combined Benefit Fund (Combined Fund) prior to this Act's enactment date to be transferred to the Combined Fund in: (1) such amounts as estimated by Fund trustees to offset any deficit in net assets in the Combined Fund through August 31, 2001; (2) the amount of $2.2 million for purposes of the Combined Fund providing a refund of any premium to certain signatory operators or persons related to such operators who were denied refunds as the result of final judgments or settlements; and (3) such amounts as necessary for purposes of the Combined Fund providing a monthly refund of any premium paid by certain assigned operators commencing with the first monthly premium due date after this Act's enactment and ending August 31, 2001.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Land Conservation, Preservation and Infrastructure Improvement\n    Provides an additional $686 million for acquisition, conservation, and maintenance of Federal and non-Federal lands and resources and for payments in lieu of taxes. \n    Section\n    801\n     - \n    \n    Amends the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) to establish discretionary spending limits for the conservation spending category and specified subcategories for FY 2002 through 2006. Requires any funds not appropriated within the discretionary spending limits of such category or subcategories to be added to such limits in the following fiscal year. Prohibits the total amount provided for any conservation activity within such category from exceeding any authorized ceiling.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Department of the Treasury\n    Provides for the deposit of an additional $5 billion into the account to reduce the public debt."