"4/12/2000--Passed House amended. Chesapeake Bay Restoration Act of 2000 - Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to direct the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to: (1) continue the Chesapeake Bay Program; and (2) maintain a Program Office to provide specified support to the Chesapeake Executive Council. Authorizes the Administrator to provide technical assistance and assistance grants to nonprofit organizations, State and local governments, colleges and universities, and interstate agencies to achieve Program goals. Provides the Federal and non-Federal share of various Program costs. Provides for Chesapeake Bay Agreement (an agreement among signatory members to restore and protect the Bay's ecosystem) implementation and monitoring grants, with specified Federal and non-Federal shares. Directs the Administrator to make public a document describing in detail projects funded for the current and previous years. Requires any Federal agency that owns or operates a facility within the Bay watershed to: (1) participate in regional and subwatershed planning and restoration programs; and (2) report to the President and the Council on expenditures to carry out such programs. Requires the Administrator to: (1) ensure that management plans are developed and that implementation is begun by signatories to the Agreement to achieve specified water nutrient and quality goals and habitat restoration and protection; and (2) offer technical assistance and assistance grants for a small watershed grants program within the Bay. Directs the Administrator to study and report to Congress on the state of the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem and on Program strategies. Requires a five-year study to establish and expand understanding of Bay ecosystem living resources response to water quality improvements resulting from the Program. Authorizes appropriations for FY 2000 through 2005. Expresses the sense of Congress that entities receiving assistance under this Act should, in expending such assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products. Requires such entities to report any expenditures made on foreign-made items to Congress."