"10/8/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1992 - Appropriates funds for FY 1992 for military construction functions administered by the Department of Defense (DOD) in specified amounts for: (1) military construction, Army (including such funds under prior law); (2) military construction, Navy (including a rescission); (3) military construction, Air Force (including rescissions); (4) military construction, defense agencies (including rescissions and a specified transfer of funds); (5) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Infrastructure; (6) military construction, Army National Guard; (7) military construction, Air National Guard; (8) military construction, Army Reserve; (9) military construction, Naval Reserve; (10) military construction, Air Force Reserve; (11) family housing, Army; (12) family housing, Navy and Marine Corps; (13) family housing, Air Force; (14) family housing, defense agencies; (15) homeowners assistance fund, defense; and (16) the Department of Defense Base Closure Accounts. Prohibits NATO Infrastructure funds from this or any other Act from being used to support the relocation of the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing to Crotone, Italy. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for payments under certain cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contracts without specific approval by the Secretary of Defense. Authorizes funds appropriated in this Act to be used for: (1) the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and (2) advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of defense access roads. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for: (1) construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which specific appropriations have not been made; (2) the purchase of certain lands or easements for amounts in excess of 100 percent of their value as determined by the Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except under specified conditions; (3) acquisition, site preparation, or the installation of any utilities for family housing, except for housing for which funds have been made available under annual military construction appropriation Acts; (4) transferring or relocating any activity from one base or installation to another without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations; and (5) the procurement of steel for any construction project or activity for which American steel producers have been denied the opportunity to compete. Prohibits the use of funds available for military construction and housing during FY 1991 to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for: (1) the initiation of a new installation overseas without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations; (2) certain architect and engineer contracts for projects in Japan or in any NATO-member country, unless awarded to U.S. firms solely or in joint ventures; or (3) the award of any contract for military construction in the U.S. territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Island in excess of $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor, with specified exceptions. Directs the Secretary to notify the Senate and House Armed Services and Appropriations Committees of the plans and scope of any military exercise involving U.S. personnel 30 days prior to its occurrence if amounts expended for construction are expected to exceed $100,000. Transfers certain funds of the Military Family Housing Management Account to the appropriations for family housing provided in this Act. Prohibits more than 20 percent of the funds appropriated in this Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year from being obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year. Makes certain prior year funds available for military construction authorized during the first session of the 102nd Congress. Directs the Secretary, by February 15, 1992, to provide the Appropriations Committees with a report detailing the specific actions proposed to be taken by DOD during FY 1992 to encourage other members of NATO, Japan and Korea to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United States. Permits certain expired or lapsed funds to be used to pay certain overhead and other costs associated with military construction or family housing projects. Allows funds appropriated for military construction projects to be obligated until the end of the fourth year after such funds were appropriated, with certain conditions. Limits the amount of funds that may be obligated for the contract cleaning of military family housing units. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act from being used for new military family housing units in the Republic of Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied tours after June 6, 1988. Authorizes the transfer of unobligated DOD military construction and family housing operation and maintenance and construction funds to the foreign currency fluctuations, construction, defense appropriation to be merged with, and available for, its purposes. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act for planning and design activities from being used to initiate design of the Pentagon Annex. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act from being available for study, planning, design, or architect and engineer services related to the relocation of the Yongsan Garrison, Korea. Requires funds necessary for FY 1992 pay raises for programs funded by this Act to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Amends the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Consequences of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, Food Stamps, Unemployment Compensation Administration, Veterans Compensation and Pensions, and Other Urgent Needs Act of 1991 to extend until November 5, 1990, the effective date of the repeal of specified provisions of the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991 which: (1) authorize the President to seize and liquidate certain property to pay U.S. creditors holding claims against Iraq; and (2) provide criminal penalties against the perpetrators of, and remedies, jurisdiction, and venue for the victims of, international terrorism. Directs the Secretary of the Army to transfer to the Secretary of the Interior specified real property located near Fort Meade, Maryland. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to administer such transferred property as part of the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center and in a manner consistent with wildlife conservation purposes, with continued access by Federal agencies currently using such property. Requires the Secretary of the Army to carry out repairs and take other preservation and maintenance actions deemed necessary to ensure that all real property at Fort Douglas, Utah, that has been or is to be conveyed under specified Federal law, is free from natural gas leaks and other safety-threatening defects. Requires the Secretary to certify to the appropriations committees that such repairs and preservation and maintenance actions have been taken. Requires all such repairs and other actions to be completed by September 30, 1992."