"6/18/1992--House receded and concurred with amendment. Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1992, for Disaster Assistance To Meet Urgent Needs Because of Calamities such as Those Which Occurred in Los Angeles and Chicago - Makes dire supplemental appropriations for FY 1992 for: (1) the disaster loans program account and business loans programs account of the Small Business Administration; and (2) the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the Department of Justice; (3) the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) for disaster relief and the disaster assistance direct loan program account; (4) the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor for a summer youth employment and training program; and (5) salaries and expenses of the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and salaries and expenses of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the Department of the Treasury for violent crime task forces and increased costs associated with the Los Angeles riot. Rescinds funds made available to the Department of the Treasury for: (1) the United States Customs Service for Air and Marine interdiction programs; (2) salaries and expenses of the United States Mint; (3) salaries and expenses of the Bureau of the Public Debt; and (4) salaries and expenses of the United States Secret Service. Rescinds funds made available to the Executive Office of the President for salaries and expenses of the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Congress should adopt Federal enterprise zone legislation. Exempts the block grant program under the Federal Transit Act from requirements for any non-Federal share, in the same manner as specified in temporary matching fund waiver provisions of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991. Allows emergency relief funds to be used on all roads classified as local or rural minor collector. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should exercise authority to make emergency designations for rural agricultural disasters, as well as the urban disasters in Chicago and Los Angeles. Provides for the treatment of funds appropriated to a State for the control of outdoor advertising. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for grants, loans, or other assistance to any person who is convicted of, arrested or subject to pending charges for, committing a riot-related crime in the City or County of Los Angeles between April 29 through May 9, 1992. Requires applicants for aid to certify that they do not fall into such category or are acting on behalf of such persons. Makes funds available to provide humanitarian assistance to Bosnia-Hercegovina."