"4/8/1992--Introduced. House Administration Reform Resolution of 1992 - Amends rule II of the Rules of the House of Representatives to eliminate the election of a Postmaster in the House. States that the Clerk, Sergeant-at-Arms, and Doorkeeper may be removed by the House or by the Speaker. Amends rule III and IV of the Rules of the House of Representatives to revise the duties of the Clerk and the Sergeant-at-Arms to exclude respectively: (1) making or approving contracts for material or labor for the House, keeping disbursement accounts for the contingent fund of the House or the stationery account of members, or paying the salaries of House officers and employees; and (2) keeping accounts for the pay and mileage of members. Amends rule VI of the Rules of the House of Representatives to repeal provisions prescribing duties for the Postmaster of the House. Adds rule LII to the Rules of the House of Representatives to create the position of Director of Non-Legislative and Financial Services (to be appointed for a Congress by the Speaker and the majority and minority leaders) which shall have operational and functional responsibility for functions assigned by resolution of the House. Authorizes the House or the Speaker to remove the Director. Specifies the administrative functions and entities of the House to be transferred to the Director. Exempts functions and entities within the jurisdiction of the Committee on House Administration under rule X (providing for the establishment and jurisdiction of committees) from such transfer, with exceptions. Adds rule LIII to the Rules of the House of Representatives to establish the Office of Inspector General in the House (to be appointed for a Congress by the Speaker and the majority and minority leaders) to conduct and report on periodic audits of the financial functions of the Director, Clerk, Sergeant-at-Arms, and Doorkeeper. Amends rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives to establish a bipartisan Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight of the Committee on House Administration which shall receive all audit reports of the Inspector General and be responsible for overseeing the Clerk, Sergeant-at-Arms, Doorkeeper, and Director. Revises the functions of the Committee on House Administration to include: (1) providing for transfers of functions to improve non-legislative and financial services; and (2) providing policy direction for, and oversight of, the Clerk, Sergeant-at-Arms, Doorkeeper, Director, and Inspector General. Directs the Committee on House Administration to: (1) take necessary actions to eliminate designated perquisites; and (2) provide an Office of General Counsel to the House in a manner to insure appropriate coordination with and participation by both the majority and minority leaderships in representational and litigation matters."