"5/20/1992--Introduced. Yugoslavia Sanctions Act of 1992 - Imposes the following sanctions on Yugoslavia (the Federation of Montenegro and Serbia) until conditions under this Act have been met: (1) a prohibition on the furnishing to Yugoslavia of U.S. assistance funds appropriated before this Act's enactment date; (2) opposition to loans by specified multilateral financial institutions to Yugoslavia; and (3) restrictions on air travel between the United States and Yugoslavia. Provides that such conditions are that Yugoslavia: (1) is not waging a war of military aggression against any other country; (2) is not supporting any military unit, militia, or paramilitary organization in another country; (3) is not occupying any territory of another country and is not assisting forces occupying another country; (4) recognizes as international borders the borders of Croatia, Bosnia-Hercegovina, and Macedonia as specified in the 1974 Yugoslav Federal Constitution and as existed on December 31, 1984; (5) is not interfering with United Nations peacekeeping operations or with international observer missions or humanitarian relief efforts; and (6) is not engaged in systematic violations of human rights. Directs the President to certify that such conditions have been met to the Speaker of the House and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Provides that the independent countries of the former Yugoslavia shall be the heirs severally and collectively to the assets and liabilities of the former Yugoslavia. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should not recognize Yugoslavia until it has met the conditions under this Act and that the President should enter into negotiations with the independent countries of the former Yugoslavia to insure an equitable distribution of the diplomatic property in the United States among the successor states. Urges the President to: (1) negotiate multilateral sanctions pursuant to the United Nations Charter against Yugoslavia so long as Yugoslavia is supporting acts of military aggression against Bosnia-Hercegovina; and (2) oppose Yugoslavia's aggression in all appropriate fora. Applies sanctions under this Act to any other independent country of the former Yugoslavia if such country is engaged in military aggression against a neighbor for the purpose of changing its boundaries. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should take steps so that adequate humanitarian assistance reaches needy people in Bosnia-Hercegovina."