"7/31/1992--Passed House amended. Miscellaneous Tariff Act of 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Temporary Suspensions and Reductions in Duties\n    \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    New Duty Suspensions and Temporary Reductions\n    Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to suspend, through December 31, 1996, the duty on certain: (1) pectin articles; (2) fuel grade alcohol; (3) organic chemicals; (4) drugs; (5) dyes; (6) plastics; (7) baseball and softball gloves and mitts; (8) ceramic and porcelain articles; (9) glass sheets; (10) plastic jewelry; (11) machinery for use in the manufacture of video laser discs; (12) spring-beard needles; (13) sewing machine needles; (14) digital processing units for automatic data processing machines; (15) radio-tape player combinations; (16) mounted closed circuit television lenses; (17) fixed focus instant print cameras (including other than fixed focus and over ten dollars); (18) unstuffed dolls, doll parts, and accessories; and (19) machined electronic connector contact parts. Reduces, through December 31, 1994, the duty on certain: (1) organic chemicals; (2) photographic paper; (3) synthetic fibers; (4) twine; (5) man-made fiber felt fabric; (6) water-resistant wools; (7) brassieres; (8) ceramic statues, statuettes, and hand-made flowers; and (9) lightweight bicycles. Grants duty-free treatment, through October 4, 1996, to the personal effects of, and other articles sought by, participants, their families and associated members, and officials involved in the XXVI Summer Olympiad and associated Cultural Olympiad in Atlanta, Georgia.  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    Existing Temporary Duty Suspensions\n    Extends, through December 31, 1994, the existing suspension of duty on: (1) crude feathers and down; (2) certain fresh cantaloupes; (3) certain organic chemicals; (4) pesticides; (5) nicotine resin complex; (6) certain drugs; (7) certain bicycle parts; (8) certain wood veneer; (9) certain unimproved wools; (10) skating boots for use in the manufacture of in-line roller skates; (11) self-folding collapsible umbrellas; (12) umbrella frames; (13) diamond tool and drill blanks; (14) cable or inner wire for caliper and cantilever brakes and casings; (15) bicycle chains; (16) molten-salt-cooled acrylic acid reactors and associated parts, accessories, and equipment, when imported as an entirety; (17) certain knitting machines; (18) needles for knitting machines; (19) machines suitable for use in the manufacture of wheels for bicycles; (20) aircraft generator parts; (21) generator lighting sets for bicycles and parts; (22) certain videotape recordings; (23) certain entertainment broadcast band receivers; (24) bicycle brakes and brake mechanisms; (25) bicycle handlebar stems wholly of aluminum alloy; (26) bicycle handlebar stem rotor assemblies; (27) stuffed dolls and stuffed doll skins; (28) stuffed or filled toys; and (29) skins for certain stuffed toys. Extends, through December 31, 1994, the existing reduction in duty on: (1) fresh, chilled, or frozen brussels sprouts; (2) certain disposable surgical gowns and drapes; and (3) unwrought lead. Makes certain changes to the article descriptions of specified chemicals listed under the Schedule. Extends, through December 31, 1994, the existing suspension of duty on: (1) certain photographic coupler intermediates; (2) certain organic chemicals; (3) certain drugs; (4) photographic color couplers; (5) transparent sheeting of plastics; (6) fiberglass rubber reinforcing cord or yarn; (7) fiberglass tire cord fabric; (8) certain internal combustion piston-type engines; (9) certain weaving machines; (10) hosiery knitting machines; and (11) certain electrostatic copying machine parts and accessories.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Other Tariff and Miscellaneous Provisions\n    \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    Tariff Classification and Other Technical Amendments\n    Creates a new tariff classification to cover imports of: (1) pectin; and (2) motor fuel blending stocks. Imposes a duty on such stocks. Revises the tariff classification of linear alkylbenzene sulfonates and linear alkylbenzene sulfonic acids. Revises a specified subheading relating to nonalloy iron and steel pipe and tubes to include non-galvanized forms of such products. Increases the duty on certain other iron and steel pipes and tubes. Imposes a duty on galvanized nonalloy iron and steel pipes and tubes having a specified thickness. Increases the duty on certain stainless steel pipes and tubes. Authorizes the U.S. Trade Representative to negotiate compensation for claims made pursuant to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or any other trade agreement to which the United States is a party, as a result of the amendments made by this Act. Revises the article description with respect to the tariff treatment of plastic jewelry. Amends the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 to direct the Secretary of the Treasury to reliquidate (provide a refund of duties) on certain entries of petroleum products in California and Oregon.  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    Miscellaneous Provisions\n    Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to make permanent the suspension of duty on specified menthol feedstocks. Provides a duty on other types of menthol feedstocks. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury, with respect to producers of watches in the insular possessions of the United States who are wage certificate holders, to pay to such a holder, at the holder's election, the face value of such certificates less the value of: (1) any duty refunds claimed by the holder under the certificate; and (2) any duty refunds under such certificate that are sold by such holder. Grants duty-free treatment of articles (not over $600 in value) acquired in Bermuda. Grants duty-free treatment to sweaters in which the number of U.S. citizens, nationals, or resident aliens who perform the assembly operations comprise at least 50 percent of the total number of assembly production workers. (Applies only to sweaters assembled in Guam.) Sets forth specified exceptions. Provides for the reliquidation (refund) of certain entries of n-acetylsufanilyl chloride under the Tariff Schedules of the United States. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to: (1) liquidate or reliquidate as free of duty any partially assembled lead fuel assembly that was or is imported on March 9, 1990, on September 19, 1990, on November 7, 1990, and on December 21, 1990; and (2) refund any duties paid with respect to such imports if a specified certification is made and submitted to the appropriate customs officer. Describes such an assembly as composed of nuclear fuel rods of zircaloy tubes filled with slightly enriched uranium dioxide pellets. Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to exempt from duties imposed under such Act the cost of spare parts necessarily installed on vessels before first entry into the United States only if certain appropriate duties are paid upon such entry of each such spare part purchased in, or imported from, a foreign country. Amends the Customs and Trade Act of 1990 to provide that such exemption shall apply to entries made on or before December 31, 1994. Provides that Mexican metalized or foil balloons that are imported into the United States after June 30, 1989, and before July 1, 1990, shall be reliquidated as duty free as if such items entered on July 1, 1990, upon proper request filed with the appropriate customs officer. Provides that stuffed dolls with or without clothing that are imported into the United States on or after December 31, 1985, and before October 1, 1988, shall be liquidated as duty free as if such items entered on October 1, 1988, upon proper request filed with the appropriate customs officer. Declares that a specified production incentive certificate shall be deemed to have been reissued on the 15th day after the enactment of this Act, and shall expire one year after such day. Provides, upon a request filed with the appropriate customs officer, for the liquidation or reliquidation (refund) of duties paid on Mexican tissue paper that entered the United States after December 31, 1988, and before July 1, 1990. Sets forth certain conditions for such refund. Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to exempt semiconductors from the country of origin marking requirements under such Act. Amends the Foreign Trade Zones Act to extend until December 31, 1996, the exclusion of bicycle component parts from the exemption from customs laws provided by such Act. Provides, upon a request filed with the appropriate customs officer, for the reliquidation (refund) of duties paid on specified entries filed at the Port of Laredo, Texas, as if any synthetic filaments which were tipped and flagged, or tipped, flagged, and dyed abroad were properly classified under the Tariff Schedule of the United States. Provides, upon a request filed with the appropriate customs officer, for the reliquidation (refund) of duties paid on specified entries filed at the Port of Los Angeles, California. Treats certain entries of fabric wholly of polyamide as having been exported from the United States in accordance with and in satisfaction of the temporary importation bond and obligations of The Umbrellas: Joint Project for Japan and U.S.A. Corporation if specified conditions are met. Provides for the reliquidation (refund) of countervailing duties paid with respect to certain entries of industrial fasteners from Japan. Amends the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States to authorize the extension of time (not to exceed five years) for the exportation of articles to be repaired, altered, or processed, including processes which result in articles manufactured or produced in the United States, that are imported duty-free under bond, provided that any extension beyond the third year must be accompanied by the importer's certification that such articles are to be incorporated into a communications satellite. Subjects to liquidated damages any such articles imported after January 1, 1983, and before the effective date of this Act, that are certified by the importer as having been dedicated for incorporation into a communications satellite, and as not having been exported within the time required because of launch schedule delays. Limits such liquidated damages to a maximum one percent of the liquidated damages established under the bond. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to pay interest as provided for by the Tariff Act of 1930 with respect to certain reliquidated entries of tubular tin products. Provides for the reliquidation (refund) of duties on certain rock wool manufacturing machines, appliances, and parts. Classifies certain passenger and multipurpose vans, sport utility vehicles, and other Jeep-type vehicles as motor vehicles for the transport of goods for purposes of tariff treatment under the Schedule. Provides a duty on such vehicles."