"9/24/1992--House receded and concurred with amendment. Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1993 - Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for military construction functions administered by the Department of Defense (DOD) in specified amounts for: (1) military construction, Army; (2) military construction, Navy; (3) military construction, Air Force; (4) military construction, defense agencies (including a transfer of funds); (5) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) infrastructure; (6) military construction, Army National Guard; (7) military construction, Air National Guard; (8) military construction, Army Reserve; (9) military construction, Naval Reserve; (10) military construction, Air Force Reserve; (11) family housing, Army; (12) family housing, Navy and Marine Corps; (13) family housing, Air Force; (14) family housing, defense agencies; (15) homeowners assistance fund, defense; and (16) the Department of Defense Base Closure Accounts. Prohibits funds appropriated in military construction appropriation Acts from being expended for payments under a cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contract for work in excess of $25,000 to be performed within the United States, except Alaska, without the specific approval of the Secretary of Defense. Allows DOD construction funds to be available for: (1) the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and (2) advances to the Department of Transportation's Federal Highway Administration for the construction of defense access roads when certified by the Secretary as important to the national defense. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used to begin construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which specific appropriations have not been made. Prohibits military construction appropriation Act funds from being used: (1) to purchase land or easements for an amount in excess of 100 percent of their appraised value, with exceptions; (2) to acquire land, prepare sites, or install utilities for military family housing, except housing for which funds have been made available in military construction appropriation Acts; (3) to transfer or relocate any activity from one base or installation to another, without prior notification to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees; and (4) for the procurement of steel for any construction project or activity for which American steel producers, fabricators, and manufacturers have been denied the opportunity to compete. Prohibits funds available to DOD for military construction or family housing during the current fiscal year from being used to pay real property taxes in any foreign country. Prohibits funds appropriated in military construction Acts: (1) from being used to initiate a new installation overseas without prior notification to the Appropriations Committees; (2) from being obligated for architect and engineer contracts estimated to exceed $500,000 for projects to be accomplished in Japan or any NATO-member country, unless such contracts are awarded to U.S. firms or U.S. firms in joint venture with host nation firms; and (3) for U.S. military construction projects in U.S. territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Atoll from being used to award any contract estimated to exceed $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor, with an exception. Directs the Secretary to inform the Appropriations Committees and the Senate and House Armed Services Committees of the plans and scope of any military exercise involving U.S. personnel 30 days prior to its occurrence if amounts expended for construction for such exercise are anticipated to exceed $100,000. Transfers certain funds of the Military Family Housing Management Account to the appropriations for family housing. Prohibits more than 20 percent of the funds appropriated in military construction appropriation Acts which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year from being obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year. Makes certain prior year funds available for military construction authorized during the second session of the 102nd Congress. Directs the Secretary to report by February 15 annually to the Appropriations Committees detailing specific actions proposed to be taken by DOD during that fiscal year to encourage other member-nations of NATO, Japan, and Korea to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United States. Permits certain expired or lapsed funds to be used to pay certain overhead and other costs associated with military construction or family housing projects. Allows funds appropriated for military construction projects to be obligated until the end of the fourth fiscal year after the fiscal year in which the funds were appropriated, with certain conditions. Limits the amount of funds that may be obligated for the contract cleaning of military family housing units. Authorizes the transfer of unobligated DOD military construction and family housing operation and maintenance and construction funds to the foreign currency fluctuations, construction, defense appropriation. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act from being available for study, planning, design, or architect and engineer services related to the relocation of the Yongsan Garrison, Korea. Requires funds necessary for annual pay raises for programs funded by military construction appropriations Acts to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in each such Act. Considers defense access roads for Camp McCain, Mississippi, as fully meeting the requirement of certification by the Secretary as important to the military or civilian defense. Reconvenes the environmental response task force established under the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 and requires such task force, until all military base closure and realignment activities are completed, to: (1) monitor the progress of relevant Federal and State agencies in implementing the recommendations of the task force with respect to ways to improve, consolidate, and streamline environmental response actions taken at such installations; and (2) report to the Congress on ways to expedite and improve such actions. Mandates the inclusion on such task force of a representative of the Urban Land Institute. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used: (1) for the design, construction, operation or maintenance of new family housing units in Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied tours after June 6, 1988; and (2) to support the design or construction of any project to expand or rehabilitate the Pentagon reservation."