"11/6/1991--Passed Senate amended. Indoor Air Quality Act of 1991 - Directs the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to establish a national research, development, and demonstration program to assure the quality of indoor air, including coordinating and accelerating efforts related to the causes, detection, and correction of contaminated air. Requires such program to include information collection and dissemination, cooperative research, grants, studies, development of techniques, facility construction, and conferences. Requires that research focus on human health effects and the identification of types and levels of contaminants likely to cause harm, including the development of methodology and techniques for detection and control. Authorizes the Administrator to assist technology demonstration activities based on a technology's potential to cost effectively control sources of contaminants. Limits Federal funding to 75 percent of the costs of such projects. Requires the Administrator to publish general reports on the findings of such demonstration projects. Directs the Administrator to conduct a national assessment of indoor air pollution in buildings owned by local educational agencies and child care facilities. Requires the Administrator to report to the Congress on issues related to chemical sensitivity disorders. Repeals title IV of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 concerning radon and indoor air quality research. Directs the Administrator to publish bulletins assessing technologies and management practices for the control and measurement of indoor air contaminants. Requires the Director of the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health to develop a course to provide training in: (1) ventilation system operation and maintenance; (2) maintenance of records concerning indoor air quality; and (3) the identification of health threats posed by indoor air pollutants, pollutant sources, and options for reducing exposure to contaminants. Authorizes fees for such training. Requires the Administrator to conduct a program to analyze the adequacy of existing standards and guidelines to protect the public from indoor air contaminants. Directs the Administrator to publish and biennially revise a list of contaminants known to occur in indoor air at levels expected to cause adverse health effects. Provides for additions to such list upon application of a State Governor. Requires the Administrator to publish advisory materials addressing the health effects of listed contaminants. Directs the Indoor Air Quality and Total Human Exposure Committee of the EPA Science Advisory Board to assist in the listing and advisories. Requires advisories to be updated at least once every five years. Directs the Administrator to develop and publish a national indoor air quality response plan to reduce human exposure to listed indoor air pollutants and attain contaminant levels protective of human health. Requires the response plan to identify the contaminant, the basis for the action, the nature of the response, the responsible Federal authority, and the necessary financial resources. Requires the Administrator and the Administrator of the General Services Administration (GSA) to develop and implement a program to respond to and reduce indoor air contamination in Federal buildings and to demonstrate methods of reducing indoor air contamination in new Federal buildings. Directs the GSA Administrator to prepare response plans addressing indoor air quality in Federal buildings. Exempts certain buildings for national security, demolition, or special use reasons. Directs the GSA Administrator to reserve .5 percent of funds used for construction of new Federal buildings for measures to reduce indoor air contaminant concentrations in such buildings. Requires that any new EPA building be designed, constructed, and maintained as a model to demonstrate practices for protection of indoor air quality. Directs the GSA Administrator to provide a method to allow workers and the public to file complaints concerning indoor air quality in Federal buildings. Requires the GSA Administrator to designate an Indoor Air Quality Coordinator for each Federal building owned or leased by GSA. Requires each Coordinator to complete the indoor air training course established pursuant to this Act. Provides that the GSA Administrator shall not reestablish leases for buildings in which the lessee has failed to designate and train a Coordinator. Authorizes grants to States for the development and implementation of management strategies and indoor air quality assessment and response programs similar to those of the Federal program. Directs the Administrator to establish the Office of Indoor Air Quality within the EPA's Office of Air and Radiation to implement agency responsibilities under this Act. Establishes a Council on Indoor Air Quality to coordinate Federal indoor air quality activities and review and comment on the national indoor air response program and the Federal building response plan. Requires the Council to report to the Congress on a biennial basis. Directs the Administrator to establish a national indoor air quality clearinghouse which shall operate a toll-free hotline on indoor air quality. Requires the Director of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health to implement a Building Assessment Demonstration Program to support the development of methods, techniques, and protocols for assessing indoor air contamination in non-residential, non-industrial buildings and to provide contamination reduction assistance and guidance to building owners and occupants. Sets forth building assessment report requirements. Authorizes appropriations."