"3/22/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Consequences of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, Food Stamps, Unemployment Compensation Administration, Veterans Compensation and Pensions, and Other Urgent Needs Act of 1991 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations\n    Makes emergency amounts available for FY 1991 for additional costs resulting from Operation Desert Shield/Operation Desert Storm for: (1) the Department of Justice; (2) the Department of State; (3) the United States Information Agency; (4) the District of Columbia; (5) the Agency for International Development; (6) the Economic Support Fund; (7) the Capitol Police Board; (8) the Library of Congress; (9) the Panama Canal Commission; (10) the Department of the Treasury; and (11) the Department of Veterans Affairs. Repeals a provision of the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1991 which restricted the use of funds to carry out an export enhancement program.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations\n    Makes supplemental appropriations for: (1) the Department of Commerce; (2) the Department of Justice; (3) the Department of State; (4) the Judiciary; (5) the Board for International Broadcasting; (6) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; (7) the Federal Communications Commission; (8) the Federal Trade Commission; (9) the Legal Services Corporation; (10) the Securities and Exchange Commission; (11) the Small Business Administration; (12) the Department of Defense-Military; (13) the Federal payment to the District of Columbia; (14) the Civil Corps of Engineers of the Department of Defense; (15) the Department of the Interior; (16) the Department of Energy; (17) the Delaware River Basin Commission; (18) the Susquehanna River Basin Commission; (19) the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor; (20) the Department of Health and Human Services, including the Social Security Administration; (21) the Department of Agriculture, including the Food Stamp Program; (22) the Department of Transportation; (23) the Department of Veterans Affairs; (24) the Department of Housing and Urban Development; (25) the Department of Education; and (26) the Maritime Administration. Requires the use of funds already appropriated to the Department of Commerce to provide the Federal States of Micronesia technical assistance and training for census taking and other data collection efforts. Amends Federal law to allow the Attorney General to use unobligated balances remaining in the Asset Forfeiture Fund to procure vehicles, equipment, and other capital investment items for the law enforcement, prosecution, and correctional activities of the Department of Justice. Prohibits the use of funds by the Department of Justice to pay fact witness fees to an incarcerated person testifying as a fact witness. Prohibits the Small Business Administration from withholding disaster assistance to nurseries or greenhouses which suffered damage as a result of disasters that occurred between October 1, 1990, and March 1, 1991. Allows incentive special pay for certain flag officer medical personnel. Authorizes the use of funds made available to the Department of Defense for an off-island leave program. Directs the Navy to begin obligating funds for the F-14 remanufactured program not later than 30 days after enactment of this Act. Prohibits the use of funds made available to the Department of Defense for advance procurement of material and other efforts associated with the industrial availability of the U.S.S. Kennedy other than the service life extension program for the vessel at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard. Directs the Department to obligate previously appropriated funds for the V-22 Osprey tilt rotor aircraft program. Directs the Secretary of Defense to transfer funds among various prior year AOE combat support ship programs. Amends the Department of Defense Appropriations Act 1991 to remove the limitation on the number of personnel that may be hired by the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict if the Secretary of Defense reports to the congressional Committees on Appropriations indicating the additional positions intended to be filled. Makes a portion of the funds already appropriated to the Department of Defense for the 1990 Goodwill Games available for the 1991 Special Olympics to be held in Minnesota. Directs the Secretary of Defense to transfer specified funds to the Department of Education for a grant for the Center for Commerce and Industrial Expansion. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act 1975 to revise the required inscriptions on mobile offices of Senators. Provides authority for the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate to incur additional expenses as necessary. Makes a payment to the widow of Silvio O. Conte, late a Representative from Massachusetts. Allows the transfer of funds of the Library of Congress to the Architect of the Capitol for rental, lease, or other agreement of temporary storage and warehouse space for use by the Library during FY 1991. Extends the availability of certain unliquidated obligations for the books for the blind and physically handicapped account of the Library. Declares that the Congress disapproves the deferrals relating to the Department of Defense moratorium/prohibition on contracts for military construction and family housing. Directs the Secretary of the Army to conditionally convey to the Missouri Housing Development Commission all right, title, and interest in the United States in and to the land known as the U.S. Army Charles Melvin Price Support Center Wherry Housing Annex in Pine Lawn, Missouri. Extends the availability of appropriations for the rehabilitation of the Official Residence of the Vice President. Prohibits the General Services Administration from obligating or expending any funds for the award of contracts for the construction of the Northern Virginia Naval Systems Command Headquarters without the advance approval in writing of the House Committee on Appropriations. Rescinds certain funds made available for annual contributions for assisted housing. Amends the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to increase the number of persons who can reside in a facility developed under the supportive housing for persons with disabilities program. Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 with respect to rental rehabilitation activities in the city of West Hollywood, California. Exempts housing funds for urban development action grants from the requirement to cancel obligated and unobligated balances of appropriations five years after the end of fund availability.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Allows Coast Guard funding to initiate a multiyear contract for the Medium Range Recovery Helicopter (HH-60J) program. Prohibits the Department of Labor from implementing or administering certain regulations concerning: (1) a specified category of workers; and (2) apprenticeship programs in the construction industry. Prohibits the use of Federal funds from being used to restore the birthplace of Lawrence Welk. Amends Federal law to extend the deadline for the President to conduct a White House Conference on Indian Education. Requires the Advisory Committee of the Conference to be consulted on, and to advise the Task Force on the Conference and the Congress on, all aspects of the Conference. Extends the deadline for municipalities to submit group applications for stormwater discharge permits from March 18, 1991, to September 30, 1991. Amends the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 to prohibit the use of funds for commercial logging in primary tropical forest areas unless an environmental assessment identifies potential impacts on biological diversity, and demonstrates that all timber extraction will be conducted according to an environmentally sound management system which maintains the ecological functions of the natural forest, minimizes impacts on biological diversity, and contributes to reducing deforestation. Encourages the President to seek the establishment of an international framework agreement to provide for Persian Gulf environmental technical assistance. Expresses the sense of the Congress to condemn Syria for continuing to deny the basic human rights of free emigration of Jews in Syria. Amends the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 with respect to federally related mortgage loans.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Technical Corrections\n    Makes technical corrections to: (1) the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991; (2) the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991; (3) the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1991; and (4) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Certain Military Personnel and Veterans Benefits\n    Transfers funds from the Defense Cooperation Account for emergency expenses necessary for benefits provided in the Persian Gulf Conflict Supplemental Authorization and Personnel Benefits Act of 1991, including: (1) the Department of Defense; (2) the Department of Education; and (3) the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prohibits assistance to Jordan under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991, except for refugee assistance or certain training or studies outside of Jordan."