"4/17/1991--Passed Senate amended. Niobrara Scenic River Designation Act of 1991 - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate certain segments of the Niobrara River, Nebraska, and the Missouri River, Nebraska and South Dakota, as components of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Designates a certain segment of the Niobrara River, Nebraska, for study as a potential addition to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Provides that such segment shall be designated as a component of the system if funds are not authorized and appropriated, within five years after enactment of this Act, for the construction of a water resources project on it. Sets forth specified limitations on acquisition of land by the Secretary of the Interior within the segment, unless State or local governments are not adequately protecting the segments' wild and scenic values. Establishes the Niobrara Scenic River Advisory Commission to advise the Secretary on the development of a management plan for, and operation matters of, the designated segment of the Niobrara River. Terminates such Commission ten years after enactment of this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to establish a recreational river advisory group to advise on matters relating to the operation and management of the designated segment of the Missouri River. Requires the Secretary to permit, subject to certain conditions, the use of erosion control techniques for streambank stabilization within the Missouri River segment. Directs the Secretary, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to conduct a feasibility study on the potential designation of certain lands adjacent to the Niobrara and Missouri Rivers and the Lewis and Clark Reservoir as a national recreation area. Requires the results of such study to be transmitted to specified congressional committees. Requires the Secretary to study the feasibility of establishing the Niobrara-Buffalo Prairie National Park, Nebraska. Requires the results of such study to be submitted to the same congressional committees. Authorizes appropriations."