"11/27/1991--Conference report filed in House. Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers for Relief from the Effects of Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs, and for Incremental Costs of \"Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm\" Act of 1992 - Makes dire emergency supplemental appropriations to the Department of Defense for FY 1992 for specified military procurement. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Emergency Supplemental Appropriations\n    \n    Chapter\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Defense\n    Military - Makes supplemental appropriations to the Department of Defense, the Department of Transportation, and the Department of Veterans Affairs for additional costs associated with operations in and around the Persian Gulf known as Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, including the authorized transfer during FY 1992 of amounts from either the Defense Cooperation Account, or the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund. Provides for the procurement of AH-64 Apache attack helicopters. Makes funds available for costs arising from the cancellation of the Alaskan Over-The-Horizon-Backscatter Radar (OTH-B) program and powerplant lease. Makes funds available by transfer for expenses resulting from U.S. participation through February 1992 with the Kurdish Protection or Ready Protection Force. Restricts the use of funds to conduct, support, or administer any sale of defense articles or defense services to Saudi Arabia or Kuwait until that country has paid in full commitments made to support Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm. Requires the notification of the United States with regard to the transfer of any of its military equipment to other NATO countries under the provisions of the Conventional Forces in Europe Treaty. Makes funds available for the prepositioning of relief supplies in the Middle East to meet emergency Kurdish and other Iraqi-related humanitarian needs and related transportation costs. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to transfer funds to meet such needs. Prohibits the use of FY 1992 funds to procure four-ton dolly jacks outside the United States unless the Secretary determines such procurement is necessary in the interest of national security. Allows the transfer of funds to assist the Soviet Union and/or emerging political structures on the territory of the former Soviet Union in dismantling nuclear weapons. Allows the transfer of funds, at the direction of the President, to provide humanitarian assistance to the Soviet Union, or its Republics, or localities, in order to address emergency conditions which may arise.  \n    Chapter\n    II\n     - \n    Amends the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to reserve specified HOME investment partnerships assistance for Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa (insular areas). Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 to increase funding for personal services and travel for specified offices of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Provides for the use of funds available to the Court of Veterans Appeals for the Legal Services Corporation for grants or contracts to organizations that provide legal assistance to veterans in pro se cases before the Court. Requires a report to the Congress on such demonstration program. Requires the use of funds available to the Environmental Protection Agency for direct grants to Indian tribes for construction of wastewater treatment facilities. Makes supplemental appropriations to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for emergency disaster assistance payments in presidentially-declared disasters. Amends the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 to repeal the development cost limitation on the Comet Rendezvous Asteroid Flyby/Cassini mission. Makes funds available to the National Commission on Severely Distressed Public Housing to be derived from the salaries and expenses account of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Chapter III: Department of Agriculture\n    Makes supplemental appropriations to the Department of Agriculture for disaster payments for recent natural disasters. Provides for the use of funds available to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service for a grant to the State of Maine Department of Agriculture for potato disease control efforts.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Declares the findings of the Congress with respect to dire emergency conditions. Designates all funds in this Act as \"emergency requirements\" for all purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act). Prohibits appropriations in this Act from being available for obligations beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided. Prohibits foreign assistance to Kenya unless it takes significant steps toward allowing for the freedom to advocate the establishment of political parties and organizations. Limits any such assistance during FY 1992 to new projects: (1) that promote basic human needs, directly address poverty, enhance employment generation, and address environmental concerns; or (2) that are designed to improve the perfomance of democratic institutions. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the United States should recognize Ukrainian independence, take steps toward establishing full diplomatic relations, and use U.S. assistance, trade, and other programs to support the development of democracy and a free market in Ukraine. Amends Federal law to increase the limitation for the loan guarantee program for certain fishing vessels. Requires the deposit of funds received by the United States from the Exxon settlement with the United States and Alaska into the Natural Resource Damage Assessment and Restoration Fund. Amends the Public Health Service Act to permit the waiver of recovery rights to Federal funds used for construction of community mental health facilities if the facility is sold or transferred. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 to authorize the Architect of the Capitol to construct a National Garden and to solicit and accept gifts to benefit the Botanic Garden. Amends Federal law to impose penalties for the unauthorized use of the seal of the United States Senate. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1991 to delay until May 1, 1992, certain mail fund regulations. Directs the Secretary of Defense to continue the construction of a composite medical replacement facility located at Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada. Makes funds available for certain bridge safety repair projects in Vermont. Amends the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 to define the accountable owner of a certain airline."