"10/3/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Justice and Related Agencies\n    Department of Justice and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - Makes FY 1992 appropriations to the Department of Justice for: (1) Office of Justice programs; (2) general administration, including the Office of Inspector General; (3) the U.S. Parole Commission; (4) legal activities; (5) interagency law enforcement; (6) the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); (7) the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); (8) the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS); and (9) the Federal Prison System. Allows a percentage of the total income of the Working Capital Fund to be retained for the acquisition of capital equipment and for the improvement and implementation of the Department's financial management and payroll/personnel systems. Allows unobligated balances for FY 1992 to be transferred to such Fund for such purposes after notifying congressional Appropriations Committees. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to make funds available from the Immigration Legalization Fund for grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements to community-based organizations for outreach programs to be administered by the Office of Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices. Authorizes the Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated to make expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available to carry out its program. Limits the administrative expenses of such corporation. Continues certain authorities for FBI and DEA undercover investigative operations. Prohibits the use of funds to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in the case of rape. Prohibits the use of funds to require any person to perform, or facilitate the performance of, any abortion. Makes appropriations for the following related agencies for FY 1992: (1) the Commission on Civil Rights; (2) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; (3) the Federal Communications Commission (FCC); (4) the Federal Maritime Commission; (5) the Federal Trade Commission; (6) the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (7) the State Justice Institute. Requires the use of Department of Justice funds for: (1) a program to assist States in the litigation processing of death penalty Federal habeas corpus petitions; (2) a grant to the National Judicial College to provide judicial education and training to State trial judges with limited and general jurisdiction in the area of illegal drug and violent criminal offenses; (3) a grant to Project Freedom in Wichita, Kansas, for its Drug Affected Babies Prevention Initiative; (4) a Missing Alzheimer Patient Alert program; (5) the Arkansas State Police for high priority drug investigations; (6) the National College of District Attorneys to establish a permanent facility to improve the education and training of prosecutors involved in the war on drugs; (7) a grant to the American Prosecutor Research Institute's National Center for Prosecution of Child Abuse for technical assistance and training instrumental to the criminal prosecution of child abuse cases; and (8) a grant to the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges to develop model technical assistance and training programs to improve the handling of child abuse and neglect cases. Makes funds available for planning, construction, and purchase of equipment for an expanded training center at the FBI Training Academy at Quantico, Virginia, to be expended at the direction of the Attorney General. Makes funds available to the United States National Central Bureau, INTERPOL, for official reception and representation expenses. Prohibits the use of funds, unless required notification is submitted to the congressional Committees on Appropriations, for the Cooperative Agreement Program for an agreement with a State or local government for the housing of Federal prisoners and detainees when cost per bed space exceeds a specified amount. Requires the use of FBI funds to defray expenses for the automation of fingerprint identification services and related costs, and to establish an independent program office dedicated solely to the relocation of the Identification Division and the automation of fingerprint identification services. Authorizes the use of DEA funds for a Washington, D.C. area laboratory. Makes funds available to INS for the Border Patrol program. Amends the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to waive the four-year grant limitation on the receipt of Federal funds for multijurisdictional drug task forces. Increases the Federal match for the Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance Grant Program. Prohibits the payment of witness fees to incarcerated persons testifying in Federal cases. Amends the Federal law to increase certain bankruptcy fees and decrease the percentage of certain fee deposits to the United States Trustee System Fund. Allots a specified portion of such fee deposits to recover the cost of services of the United States Trustee System. Expands the use of the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund for law enforcement purposes and for any Federal agency participating in the Fund (currently, only for purposes of the Department of Justice). Requires the deposit into the Fund of the Federal equitable share from the forfeiture of property under any State, local or foreign law. Allows the investment of balances in holding accounts associated with the Fund. Limits the amount available in the Fund. Extends the authority to transfer obligated balances to agencies other than the Department of Justice for FY 1993 and thereafter. Restricts the use of FCC funds for: (1) changing FCC policies with respect to comparative licensing, distress sales and tax certificates in order to expand minority and women ownership of broadcasting licenses; (2) diminishing the number of VHF channel assignments reserved for noncommercial educational television stations; and (3) repealing, retroactively changing or reexamining rules and policies with respect to multiple ownership of broadcast stations. Requires the Securities and Exchange Commission to increase securities registration fees to recover costs of services of the registration process.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Commerce\n    Department of Commerce Appropriations Act, 1992 - Makes FY 1992 appropriations to the Department of Commerce for: (1) the National Institute of Standards and Technology; (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) (including to the Emergency Weather Satellite Contingency Fund); (3) general administration, including the Office of Inspector General; (4) the Bureau of the Census; (5) economic and statistical analysis; (6) the International Trade Administration; (7) export administration; (8) the Minority Business Development Agency; (9) the U.S. Travel and Tourism Administration; (10) the Patent and Trademark Office; (11) the Technology Administration; (12) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration; and (13) the Economic Development Administration. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to support the hurricance reconnaissance aircraft and activities that are under the control of the U.S. Air Force or the U.S. Air Force Reserve. Prohibits the use of funds to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other account of the Treasury to pay unemployment compensation for temporary census workers for services performed after April 20, 1990. Sets forth conditions under which foreign companies are eligible to receive assistance under the Advanced Technology Program. Makes funds available to the United States Travel and Tourism Administration for grants to States whose tourism promotion needs have increased due to natural disasters. Waives matching requirements for such grants. Makes funds available for the Pan-Pacific Educational and Cultural Experiments by Satellite program (PEACESAT) and for the American Indian Higher Education Consortium for utilization of telecommunications technologies. Makes funds available for the National Endowment for Children's Educational Television Act of 1990.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    The Judiciary\n    Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1992 - Appropriates FY 1992 funds for activities of the Judiciary, including: (1) the Supreme Court; (2) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; (3) the U.S. Court of International Trade; (4) the Courts of Appeals, district courts, and judicial services; (5) the Administrative Office of the United States Courts; (6) the Federal Judicial Center; (7) the U.S. Sentencing Commission; and (8) judicial retirement funds. Makes funds available for the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals and the Special Court established under the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973. Directs the Judicial Conference of the United States to prescribe reasonable fees for public access to case information through automatic data processing equipment. Amends Federal law to move Hampton County, South Carolina, into the Beaufort division of the South Carolina Judicial District. Provides for Justices and Judges of the United States to receive the same salary adjustment as that previously approved for general schedule employees.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates FY 1992 funds for: (1) the Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation; (2) the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission; (3) the Commission on Agricultural Workers; (4) the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution; (5) the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; (6) the Competitiveness Policy Council; (7) the Marine Mammal Commission; (8) the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission; (9) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; and (10) the Small Business Administration (SBA). Makes funds available to the Maritime Administration for State maritime academy programs, including payments to acquire maritime training simulators. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to use certain proceeds to maintain training at the United States Merchant Marine Academy and State maritime academies. Appropriates funds for FY 1992 to the Legal Services Corporation. Provides for the use of funds made available to the SBA. Makes funds available for the SBA Micro-Loan program.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Department of State and Related Agencies\n    Department of State and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - Appropriates FY 1992 funds for: (1) the Department of State for the administration of foreign affairs; (2) the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; (3) the Board for International Broadcasting; (4) the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; (5) the International Trade Commission; (6) the Japan-United States Friendship Commission; (7) the U.S. Information Agency; and (8) the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program. Provides funds for the Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs for grants, contracts and other activities to conduct research and promote international cooperation. Authorizes the transfer of funds for administration of foreign affairs to the Working Capital Fund for the payment of medical expenses. Provides funds for construction of chancery facilities in Moscow, U.S.S.R. Prohibits the use of funds for contracts with any foreign or domestic firm that complies with the Arab League Boycott of the State of Israel or with any firm that discriminates in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion. Allows the Secretary to waive such prohibition on a country-by-country basis upon certification to the Congress by the Secretary that such waiver is in the national interest and is necessary to carry on the diplomatic functions of the United States. Makes funds available for grants by the United States Information Agency to the National Endowment for Democracy.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth limitations and prohibitions on the use of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1992 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Provides for distributing funds to grantees of the Legal Services Corporation according to the number of poor people determined by the Bureau of the Census to be within its geographical area. Continues legislative provisions for the Corporation in effect during FY 1991. Prohibits the use of funds to approve any export license applications for the launch of U.S.-built satellites on Chinese-built launch vehicles, unless the President certifies that the specific case is in full compliance with the United States and People's Republic of China memorandum of agreement regarding international trade in commercial launch services. Amends the Small Business Act to authorize loans made under the development company program to be pooled with guaranteed loans for small business concerns for sale in the secondary market. Permits the SBA to charge the same guarantee fee for development company loans as for guaranteed loans for small business concerns. Extends from July 1, 1991, to July 1, 1992, the effective date of a cap on leverage of commonly controlled small business investment companies imposed by the Small Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 1990. Amends the Small Business Act to provide for the establishment of a Pilot Technology Access Program for making awards to Small Business Development Centers to increase access by small businesses to on-line data base services that provide technical and business information, and access to technical information. Prohibits the use of funds to carry out the Small Business Development Center technical assistance program and repeals such program on October 1, 1992. Amends the Small Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 1990 to repeal the Pilot Technology Access Program. Amends the Small Business Computer Security and Education Act of 1984 to extend the ability of the SBA to cosponsor training events and projects for small business. Establishes the microloan demonstration program to make direct loans to nonprofit intermediaries which will provide small loans to entrepreneurs to establish or to strengthen their small businesses. Directs the Attorney General to prescribe regulations to carry out the Immigration Emergency Fund Program under the Immigration and Nationality Act. Requires the Department of Justice to procure the services of expert witnesses for use in preparing or prosecuting a civil or criminal action, without regard to competitive procedures, including the Commerce Business Daily publication requirements. Limits a witness to one attendance fee per day. Authorizes the Attorney General to enter into a lease with the University of South Carolina for the use of a facility. Prohibits the use of funds for the General Services Administration Rent System payments, unless such payments are processed through the Treasury Department's Billed Office Address Code System."