"9/27/2010--Reported to Senate amended. Public Lands Service Corps Act of 2010 - Amends the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 to rename: (1) the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 as the Public Lands Service Corps Act of 1993; and (2) the Public Lands Corps as the Public Lands Service Corps (the Corps). Creates a grant program for the establishment of Indian Youth Service Corps so that Indian youth can carry out projects on Indian lands determined to be priorities by their tribes and communities. Defines \"appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation project\" as any project for the conservation, restoration, construction, or rehabilitation of natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, or scenic resources on public lands. Requires a qualified youth and conservation corps program to make available specified information for audit for each fiscal year in which they receive federal funds under this Act. Permits Corps participants to work in the National Marine Sanctuary System, coral reefs, and other coastal, estuarine, and marine habitats, and other lands and facilities administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). Requires the: (1) establishment of a department-level office within the Department of the Interior for the coordination of Corps activities within the Department; and (2) establishment of offices within the Forest Service and NOAA for the coordination of Corps activities within those agencies; and (3) designation of a Corps coordinator for each agency within the Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, and Commerce that administers such activities. Establishes an Indian Youth Service Corps liaison to: (1) provide outreach to tribes about opportunities to establish Corps and Indian Youth Service Corps programs; and (2) coordinate with the tribal liaison of the Corporation for National and Community Service to identify and establish Corps and Indian Youth Service Corps opportunities for Indian youth. Expands those authorized to be in the Corps to permit the enrollment of consulting interns. Limits enrollment in the Corps to: (1) individuals between the ages of 15 and 25; and (2) a term of up to two years. Directs the Secretary to carry out or enter into cooperative agreements to provide a recruitment program for the Corps. Directs the Secretary to establish a training program at residential conservation centers or at other sites to provide training for Corps participants. Describes the types of natural and cultural resources conservation projects that may be carried out by the Corps. Authorizes the Corps to provide certain visitor and interpretation services. Authorizes the Secretary to allow volunteers from other programs administered or designated by the Secretary to participate as Corps volunteers. Makes criminal history check requirements under the National and Community Service Act of 1990 applicable to individuals age 18 or older who are seeking to: (1) become Corps participants; (2) receive funds authorized under this Act; or (3) supervise or otherwise have contact with Corps participants in activities authorized under the Act. Prohibits participation in the Corps by an individual if the individual is subject to any of such Act's eligibility prohibitions, unless an exemption is provided for good cause by the Secretary. Revises provisions concerning conservation centers to permit residential conservation centers. Provides for temporary housing for the Corps and transportation to and from project sites in project areas where Corps participants can be expected to reside at their own homes. Permits: (1) as an appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation project, Corps participants to aid in the construction of residential conservation center facilities; and (2) recruiting mentors for Corps participants. Authorizes individual placements of consulting interns with agencies under the Secretary's jurisdiction that carry out appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation projects to carry out management analysis. Requires consulting interns to have completed at least one full year at an accredited graduate or professional school. Authorizes cooperative agreements and competitive grants for Indian tribes and qualified youth or conservation corps to establish Indian Youth Service Corps programs to carry out appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation projects on Indian lands. Requires the Secretary to issue management guidelines for Corps programs. Revises requirements regarding living allowances, terms of service, and hiring preference applicable to Corps participants. Authorizes the Secretary to provide alumni services, such as job and education counseling, referrals, and other appropriate services to former Corps participants. Modifies funding requirements and permits the Secretary to pay up to 90% of a project's costs in specified instances when necessary to enable participation in the Corps from a greater range of organizations or individuals. Authorizes appropriations. Repeals the requirement for making Corps funding available for disaster prevention or relief projects."