"9/28/1992--Conference report filed in House. Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of the Treasury\n    Treasury Department Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations to the Department of the Treasury for FY 1993 for: (1) departmental offices; (2) the Office of Inspector General; (3) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network; (4) the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; (5) the Financial Management Service; (6) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; (7) the United States Customs Service including funds for drug interdiction programs; (8) the United States Mint; (9) the Bureau of the Public Debt; (10) the Internal Revenue Service (IRS); and (11) the United States Secret Service. Directs the IRS to institute and maintain a training program to insure that IRS employees are trained in taxpayers' rights, in dealing courteously with the taxpayers, and in cross-cultural relations. Requires appropriated funds attributable to efficiency savings for FY 1993 to be withheld from obligation unless the estimated savings are not achieved. Prohibits funds appropriated under this title from being used for the collection of any underpayment of tax, unless collected under specified procedures of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. Requires the IRS and the National Finance Center (NFC) to reimburse the Financial Management Service (FMS) for postage costs the FMS incurs to make check payments on behalf of the IRS and the NFC. Prohibits the Secretary of the Treasury from directly billing a Treasury bureau for penalty mail costs incurred by another Treasury bureau, without the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary to transfer all obligated and unobligated balances in the construction of the Mint facilities and expansion and improvements accounts in prior appropriations Acts to the account for salaries and expenses. Limits the administrative expenses to pay an employee of the U.S. Customs Service.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Postal Service\n    Postal Service Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations to the Postal Service Fund for FY 1993. Prohibits any change in postage rates during FY 1993, but allows an increase for reduced rate third-class pieces other than letter shape.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Executive Office of the President\n    Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the Executive Office of the President, for salaries and/or operating expenses of the following: (1) compensation of the President; (2) the executive residence at the White House; (3) the Office of Administration; (4) the White House Office; (5) the official residence of the Vice President; (6) the provision of special assistance to the President; (7) the Council of Economic Advisers; (8) the Office of Policy Development; (9) the National Critical Materials Council; (10) the National Security Council; (11) the Office of Management and Budget; (12) the Office of Federal Procurement Policy; (13) the Office of National Drug Control Policy; and (14) unanticipated needs.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Independent Agencies\n    Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following independent agencies: (1) the Administrative Conference of the United States; (2) the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations; (3) the Committee for Purchase from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped; (4) the Federal Election Commission; and (5) the Citizens' Commission on Public Service and Compensation. Makes funds deposited in the Federal Buildings Fund available for specified purchases of the General Services Administration (GSA), limiting the availability of such funds for certain programs, construction projects, purchases, and repairs and alterations of GSA. Makes appropriations to GSA for FY 1993 for: (1) the Federal Supply Service; (2) the Federal Property Resources Service; (3) general management and administration; (4) the Information Resources Management Service; (5) the Office of Inspector General; (6) allowances and office staff for former Presidents; and (7) expenses to carry out any presidential transition. Limits the amount of funds that may be transferred between appropriations within the GSA, requiring such proposed transfers to be submitted to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees for approval. Authorizes agencies to make rent payments to GSA for lease space relating to expansion needs at commercial equivalent rates specified under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949. Authorizes appropriations out of the Federal Buildings Fund. Requires the specific approval of the Congress before the obligation or expenditure of funds for the sale, excessing, surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Norfolk Lake, Arkansas, and lands in the vicinity of Bull Shoals Lake, Arkansas, both administered by the Corps of Engineers. Authorizes the Administrator of General Services, for purposes of acquiring a building in Chamblee, Georgia, to accept all incidents of ownership over the 81st Army Reserves Training Center, located adjacent too the existing IRS Atlanta Service Center in Chamblee, Georgia at no cost. Authorizes the Administrator to acquire and furnish a replacement facility for the Training Center. Provides for a transfer of land from the United States to the Deganawidah-Quetzalcoatl University. Authorizes GSA to accept funds from the Detroit International Bridge Company and to deposit such funds into the fund for real property management for furtherance of the Ambassador bridge Cargo Inspection Facility project in Detroit, Michigan. Authorizes appropriations from such fund for such purpose. Authorizes the construction of a new courthouse in Fargo, North Dakota. Authorizes an exchange of the present Federal Building and Courthouse with the city of Fargo for a site for the new courthouse. Authorizes the fund for real property management to receive revenues, collections rebates, cash incentives or otherwise related to energy savings or materials recycling efforts to be used for Federal energy management improvement programs, recycling programs, or employee programs. Authorizes the Administrator to proceed with alterations of space in the Jacob Weinberger Federal Building, San Diego, California, subject to the availability of funds. Authorizes the Administrator to enter into an operating lease agreement for a building in Atlanta, Georgia. Requires the advance approval of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works prior to entering such lease agreement. Directs the Administrator of General Services to immediately cease construction and archeological excavation on the pavilion portion of the Foley Square Federal Building in New York, New York, until a plan is submitted to prevent further deterioration of, and to memorialize, the \"Negro Burial Ground\" on such site. Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following purposes: (1) the National Archives and Records Administration; (2) the Office of Government Ethics; and (3) the Office of Personnel Management. Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the United States Tax Court, and the Office of Special Counsel. Authorizes the Administrator of GSA to proceed with the design and construction of a courthouse in Boston, Massachusetts, to accommodate the long-term space requirements of the U.S. Courts, subject to the availability of funds. Authorizes the Administrator of GSA to enter into an interagency agreement with the Postal Service for a Federal office building in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Requires the advance approval of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works prior to entering into such agreement. Names the laboratory and the campus to be located at the Centers for Disease Control on Clifton Road, Atlanta, Georgia, as the Edward R. Roybal Laboratory and the Edward R. Roybal Campus. Names the Federal building on West Ocean Boulevard in Long Beach California, as the Glenn M. Anderson Federal Building. Names the United States Court of Appeals Building on South Grand Avenue in Pasadena, California, as the Richard H. Chambers United States Court of Appeals Building.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth certain prohibitions and limitations on the use of appropriations made under this Act. Prohibits any of the funds made available under this Act from being used for any of the following: (1) for the purpose of eliminating any existing requirements for sureties on customs bonds; (2) for the funding of any activity or the payment of any Government employee which would prohibit the enforcement of a specified provision of the 1930 Tariff Act; (3) to transfer control over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers in Glynco, Georgia, Marana, Arizona, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Treasury Department; and (4) for administrative expenses in closing the GSA Federal Information Center in Sacramento, California. Prohibits the use of any part of an appropriation made in this Act for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee of the U.S. Postal Service who in any way interferes with another employee's ability to communicate with any member or committee of the Congress in connection with any matter pertaining to the employment of such officers or employees with the Postal Service. Prohibits, with specified exceptions, the use of any funds appropriated under this Act to pay for an abortion, or to fund any Federal health plan which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions. Provides for the payment of achievement awards. Prohibits the use of funds to contract out positions or downgrade the position classification of the United States Mint Police Force and the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Police Force. Authorizes the United States Secret Service to accept donations of money to offset costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and their spouses when traveling for the purpose of making an appearance or speech for a payment of money or any thing of value. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act or any other Act to transfer mail processing capabilities from the Las Cruces, New Mexico, postal facility. Requires the Postal Service to recognize the rapid rate of population growth in Las Cruces and to automate such facility. Prohibits the use of funds to reduce the rank or rate of pay of a career appointee in the Senior Executive Service upon reassignment or transfer. Prohibits the use of funds to award a Federal agency lease in the Omaha, Nebraska - Council Bluffs, Iowa, geographical area which does not meet specified criteria. Requires the agency to give priority consideration to space offered at the lowest cost per square foot within the geographical area if it affords accessibility to the greatest number of members of the public served by the agency, and to other factors set out inapplicable statutes and regulations. Requires sums as necessary for FY 1993 pay raises for programs under this Act to be absorbed within the levels appropriated by such Act. Protects the employment rights of Federal employees who return to their civilian jobs after assignment with the Armed Forces. Prohibits the use of U.S. Customs Service funds to collect or impose any land border processing fee at ports of entry along the United States-Mexico border. Limits the expenditures of funds for travel expenses. Amends Federal law concerning costs associated with the provision of child care services by Federal agencies. Allows Federal agencies sponsoring such facilities to enter into a consortium with private entities under which such entities would assist in defraying costs associated with salaries and benefits for personnel at the facility. Amends Federal law to allow the IRS to procure the services of attorneys for use in litigating actions under the Internal Revenue Code to which a foreign-controlled corporation is a party. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to implement, administer, enforce, or otherwise carry out any change in the terms or conditions governing Federal health benefits which would only affect Medicare beneficiaries in a certain manner. Provides for the conveyance of certain land to Anne Arundel County, Maryland. Prohibits the Office of Personnel Management from preparing, promulgating, or implementing any rules or regulations relating to the Combined Federal Campaign unless such rules include a brochure list and general designation option solely for international agencies. Makes such limitation inapplicable to the 1992 Combined Federal Campaign. Allows the conveyance of certain land in the Shenandoah National Park to the Secretary of the Treasury for use as a United States Customs Service Canine Enforcement Training Center. Requires the Director of the Secret Service to contact each former President and the spouses of deceased former Presidents to advise them of the costs incurred by the Secret Service for their protection, and identify and discuss potential threats and cost-effective protection alternatives. Requires the Director, by June 1, 1993, to provide a confidential briefing on the results of such meetings to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. Allows contracts to provide Federal health benefits by nursing school administered clinics. Prohibits the use of funds by this Act to carry out a move of the IRS Automated Collection Unit from the borough of Manhattan, New York, without prior approval of the House and Senate Appropriations Committee. Requires a reduction in the appropriations for certain offices in the Department of the Treasury, the Executive Office of the President, the GSA and the Office of Personnel Management.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions (Departments, Agencies, and Corporations)\n    Sets forth certain requirements for and prohibitions and limitations on the use of appropriations made by this Act. Allows the use of funds to pay travel to the United States for the immediate family of employees serving abroad in cases of death or life threatening illness of such employees. Prohibits the obligation or expenditure of any FY 1993 appropriations by any Federal agency or instrumentality unless it has in place and administers in good faith a drug-free workplace policy. Requires Federal employing agencies to make deposits into the Federal Employees Compensation Account of the Unemployment Trust Fund not later than 30 days after the Department of Labor has billed such agencies. Authorizes the reimbursement of travel, transportation, and subsistence expenses incurred for training classes, conferences, or other meetings in connection with the provision of child care services for Federal employees. Prohibits any part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act from being used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of the Government whose post of duty is in the continental United States, unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) has filed a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States; (3) is a person owing allegiance to the United States; (4) is a lawfully-admitted alien from Poland, Cuba, South Vietnam, or the Baltic countries; or (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975. States exceptions and provides penalties for those persons submitting false affidavits under this provision. Prohibits funds from any appropriation in the current year from being paid to a person for filling a position for which he or she has been nominated after the Senate has voted not to approve such nomination. Authorizes the use of foreign credits owed to or owned by the United States for any purpose for which appropriations are made for the current year, only when the appropriate reimbursement is made to the Treasury from the agency concerned. Prohibits funds available pursuant to this Act from being used to implement any regulation which has been disapproved by a resolution duly adopted under the laws of the United States. Prohibits any funds made available under this Act from being used to plan, implement, or administer: (1) any reduction in the number of regions, districts, or entry processing locations of the U.S. Customs Service; or (2) any consolidation or centralization of duty assessment or appraisement functions of any offices of such Service. Requires the advance approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations before an executive agency purchases, constructs, and/or leases any additional facilities, except within or contiguous to existing locations, for the purposes of conducting Federal law enforcement training. Sets forth the conditions under which Federal agencies may procure automatic data processing equipment other than through the procurement known as FTS2000. Declares that the President should issue an Executive Order mandating the procurement and use of FTS 2000. Sets forth conditions for the use of Federal grant money to finance the acquisition of goods or services with an aggregate value in excess of $500,000. Authorizes the use of funds for the interagency funding of national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple government entities. Allows the use of funds by participants in the Federal Flexiplace Project to install telephone lines, necessary equipment, and pay monthly charges, in any private residence or apartment. Commends Representative Edward R. Roybal on his record of distinguished service. Amends the Trading with the Enemy Act and the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to increase the penalties for their violation. Requires Federal agencies to purchase recycled cartridges in procuring toner cartridges for use in laser printers, photocopiers or microphotographic printers. Alien Species Prevention and Enforcement Act of 1992 - Requires the Secretary of Agriculture to operate a program, under the supervision and control of the Postal Service, to protect Hawaii from the introduction of prohibited plants, plant pests, and injurious animals that may be contained in mail received in Hawaii. Excludes from such program mail that originates and is intended for delivery outside the United States. Directs the Secretary, for purposes of carrying out such program, to enter a memorandum of understanding or other agreement with the Secretary of the Interior relating to prohibited plants, plant pests, or injurious animals under the jurisdiction of the Department of the Interior. Directs: (1) the Postmaster General to offer to enter into a two-year cooperative agreement with Hawaii to enforce specified postal restrictions on mailed plants; (2) the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture to enter into similar agreements with Hawaii to enforce laws under their respective jurisdictions; and (3) the Postmaster General, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of the Interior to jointly establish a public information program about the prohibitions and penalties against shipping alien species into Hawaii and other areas of the United States. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Interior and the Postal Service, to report to the Congress on the results of a study on the proportion of plant pests and injurious animals that are introduced into Hawaii by various modes of commerce. Amends Postal law to provide that injurious animals, plant pests, prohibited plants, and illegally taken fish, wildlife, or plants constitute nonmailable matter. Prohibits the use of funds to relocate the Department of Justice Immigration Judges from offices located in Phoenix, Arizona, to new quarters in Florence, Arizona, without the prior approval of the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations. Requires the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF) to deny any application for a certificate of label approval, including a certificate of label approval already issued, which authorizes the use of the name Crazy Horse on any distilled spirit, wine, or malt beverage product. Prohibits the use of funds by ATF to enforce regulations relating to malt beverage glass bottles to which labels have been permanently affixed by means of painting and heat treatment, which were ordered on or before September 15, 1992. Directs the Administrator of GSA to enter into an operating lease with the Greater Orlando Aviation Authority, Florida, to accommodate Federal agencies presently located at Orlando Airport. Prohibits such lease agreement without the prior approval of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation and the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works. Establishes a Commission on the Social Security \"Notch\" Issue to conduct a comprehensive study of what has become the \"notch\" issue, the benefit disparity between those born before 1916 and those born after 1916 caused by the 1977 changes in the Social Security benefit formula under title II (Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance) of the Social Security Act. Requires a report to the Congress not later than December 31, 1993, with recommendations. Terminates the Commission 30 days after submission of its report. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to enter into an agreement with the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) for 30 acres of land at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center in Beltsville, Maryland, to permit the construction of wetland mitigation projects to replace wetlands eliminated by authorized construction by WMATA. Extends the U.S. Customs Service pilot pre-clearance program in Aruba through 1994. Treasury Forfeiture Fund Act of 1992 - Establishes the Department of the Treasury Forfeiture Fund to pay or reimburse certain costs and expenses related to seizures and forfeitures that occur pursuant to the Department's law enforcement activities. Sets forth administrative procedures relative to such fund patterned after the Department of Justice Assets Forfeiture Fund and the Customs Forfeiture Fund."