"10/5/1992--Conference report filed in House. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Military Personnel\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for military and reserve personnel in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force and for National Guard personnel in the Army and Air Force.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Operation and Maintenance\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for the operation and maintenance of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force (including a transfer of funds for each branch), the defense agencies, the respective reserve components, and the Army and Air National Guards. Appropriates funds for the Army's National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice, the Court of Military Appeals, environmental restoration (including a transfer of funds), humanitarian assistance, support and services for the World University Games, the 1996 Summer Olympics, and the 1994 World Cup USA, and real property maintenance, defense (including a transfer of funds).  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Procurement\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for the procurement by the Army of aircraft, missiles, weapons, tracked combat vehicles, and ammunition and for other procurement. Appropriates funds to the Navy for the procurement of aircraft, weapons, and shipbuilding and conversion and for other procurement. Appropriates funds for Marine Corps procurement. Appropriates funds for procurement by the Air Force of aircraft and missiles and for other procurement. Appropriates funds for: (1) National Guard and reserve equipment; and (2) procurement by the defense agencies.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for research, development, test, and evaluation by the Army, Navy, Air Force, and defense agencies. Appropriates funds for the Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering (Test and Evaluation) and the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Revolving and Management Funds\n    Appropriates funds for the: (1) Defense Business Operations Fund; and (2) National Defense Sealift Fund (including a transfer of funds).  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Other Department of Defense Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) medical and health care programs of the Department of Defense (DOD); (2) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions; (3) drug interdiction and counter-drug activities, defense (including a transfer of funds); and (4) expenses and activities of the Office of the Inspector General in carrying out the Inspector General Act of 1978.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Retirement and Disability Fund; and (2) expenses of the Community Management Staff.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Defense Reinvestment for Economic Growth\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1993 and 1994 for defense reinvestment programs as authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (including a transfer of funds).  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits the use of appropriations for unauthorized publicity or propaganda. Exempts during FY 1993 DOD personnel from provisions of law prohibiting the employment of non-U.S. citizens. Provides that no part of any appropriation contained in this Act may remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless expressly so provided. Prohibits the obligation of more than 20 percent of the funds appropriated by this Act during the last two months of the fiscal year, except as specified. Prohibits the use of appropriations for the procurement of any food, clothing, specified cloth (including cotton, silk, and wool) or synthetic fabrics, or specified metals not grown, produced, or processed within the United States, with specified exceptions. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in the national interest and with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to transfer and merge specified working capital funds. Directs the Secretary to notify the Congress of all such transfers. Limits the cash balances which may be maintained in such funds. Prohibits DOD funds from being used by the Secretary of a military department to purchase coal or coke from foreign nations for use at U.S. defense facilities in Europe when U.S. coal or coke is available. Authorizes the Secretary of the Air Force to use any available funds to implement cost-effective agreements for required heating facility modernization in the Kaiserslautern Military Community in the Federal Republic of Germany, under certain conditions. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for: (1) the initiation of a special access program without prior notification to the Senate and House Appropriations (appropriations) and Armed Services (defense) Committees; (2) the preparation of a request to the appropriations committees for a reprogramming of funds, except as specified; (3) certain claims for physician or provider reimbursement for medical services provided under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) in excess of those allowed for FY 1992; (4) programs of the CIA beyond FY 1993, with a specified exception; (5) initiating a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of specified amounts, unless proper congressional notification is given; (6) any intelligence or special activity different from an activity previously justified to the Congress unless the Secretary has notified the appropriations committees of the intent to make such funds available; (7) converting certain military technician positions to positions to be held by persons in active Guard or Reserve status if such conversion would reduce the number of military technicians below a specified amount; or (8) including civilian military technicians in any administratively-imposed freeze on civilian positions. Requires governments of Indian tribes to be treated as State and local governments for purposes of the disposition of real property recommended for closure. Eliminates during FY 1993 the requirement that the Congress must authorize by law the end-strengths for civilian personnel in DOD. Prohibits setting any end-strength limitations for such personnel during FY 1993. Prohibits DOD funds from being used to exceed a specified number of civilian workyears outside the United States and its territories. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for: (1) congressional lobbying; (2) the pay of certain nonmilitary Army Reserve technicians; and (3) floating storage of petroleum or petroleum products in non-U.S. vessels. Permits the appropriation of funds for humanitarian and civic assistance costs incident to authorized operations of the armed forces. Authorizes the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force to retain in active status until age 60 certain officers who need such status in order to maintain employment as a National Guard or Reserve technician. Permits the use of operation and maintenance funds provided under this Act for studies and demonstration projects relating to the delivery of military health and medical care. Terminates the Army Central Hospital Fund upon the enactment of this Act and transfers residual amounts from such Fund to an appropriated trust fund for the operation of \"Fisher Houses\" located proximate to Army medical treatment facilities. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to make contributions to the Department of Defense Education Benefits Fund for educational assistance for a member of the armed forces who enlists for less than three years or receives an enlistment bonus. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act for the basic pay and allowances of a member of the Army participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits through the Secretary of Veterans Affairs when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward completion of a service commitment. Limits the availability of appropriations to specified percentages of postsecondary educational costs for off-duty training of certain reserve Army personnel. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for conversion to contractor performance of an activity or function of DOD that is currently performed by more than ten civilian DOD employees until a cost-analysis on such performance is completed and certified to the appropriations committees. Prohibits funds available to DOD from being used to award a competitive procurement contract for any round of 120mm mortar ammunition unless such round has successfully passed certain testing and has a validated technical data package to support its procurement. Prohibits the obligation of funds appropriated in this Act to the Army for the procurement of such mortars or ammunition if manufactured outside the United States. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used to: (1) purchase, install, replace, or otherwise repair any lock on a safe or security container for critical or classified materials which has not passed regulatory security lock specifications; and (2) acquire major automated information systems which have not successfully completed certain DOD oversight reviews. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for the payment of salaries of any persons who authorize the transfer of unobligated or deobligated funds into the Reserve for Contingencies of the CIA. Requires funds appropriated under this Act for CIA construction projects to remain available until expended. Authorizes the Secretary of the Navy to use specified funds to charter ships for use as auxiliary minesweepers, under specified conditions. Directs DOD to competitively award contracts for the geographical expansion of the CHAMPUS Reform Initiative in Florida, Washington, Oregon, and Alexandria, Louisiana, under specified conditions. Permits the use of appropriated funds to fully utilize the facilities at the U.S. Army Engineer's Waterways Experiment Station, with a specified exception. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used by a military department to modify an aircraft, weapon, ship, or other item of equipment if such item is to be retired or otherwise disposed of within five years after completion of the modification, with specified exceptions. Specifies the definition of \"program, project, and activity\" for appropriations contained in this Act for purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act). Earmarks specified funds appropriated to the Army under this Act for the Reserve Component Automation System (RCAS), with certain expenditure limitations. Prohibits funds under this Act from being obligated or expended for development or procurement of any automated computer aided logistics system unless specific approval is provided to the appropriations and defense committees at least 30 days prior to a contract solicitation. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for fixed-price contracts exceeding $10,000,000 for the development of a major defense system or subsystem, unless the Under Secretary of Defense or Acquisition and the Secretary take certain action. Provides that monetary limitations on the purchase price of passenger motor vehicles shall not apply to vehicles purchased for certain intelligence activities. Earmarks specified funds for the construction of classified military projects within the continental United States. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for the procurement of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chains manufactured outside the United States. Authorizes DOD to transfer prior-year unobligated balances to the operation and maintenance appropriations of the reserve components in order to provide military technician and DOD medical personnel pay and medical programs the same exemption from the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act as is currently granted to other military personnel accounts, with specified exceptions. Earmarks specified FY 1993 DOD funds for National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowships to be awarded on a competitive basis by the Secretary to U.S. citizens or nationals pursuing advanced degrees in fields of primary concern and interest to DOD. Prohibits any funds available to the Department of the Navy from being used to enter into any contract for the overhaul, repair, or maintenance of any naval vessel on the west coast which includes interport differential charges as a factor for the award of such contract. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act for CHAMPUS programs from being used to reimburse any health care provider for inpatient mental health services for care received when a patient is referred to a provider of such care by a medical or health care professional having an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is referred, with specified exceptions. Requires the designs of specified military aircraft to incorporate certain standard avionics specifications by no later than 1998. Provides for the accounting treatment of expenses incurred by the United States in monitoring Soviet implementation of the INF Treaty. Provides funds from this Act for transportation to an annual meeting in the United States of the next-of-kin of individuals who have been prisoners of war or missing in action from the Vietnam era. Prohibits funds available to DOD or of the Navy from being used to implement certain automated data processing or information technology facility consolidation plans or to make reductions or transfers of personnel in connection with such plans until a congressional notification requirement has been met by the Secretary. Authorizes the Secretary to establish with governments of NATO countries a separate account into which such residual value amounts negotiated in the return of U.S. military installations in NATO countries may be deposited in lieu of direct monetary transfer to the U.S. Treasury, under specified conditions. Prohibits funds from this Act from being obligated or expended to prepare, or to assist any defense contractor in preparing, any material with respect to economic or employment impact in a State of an acquisition program for which all research, development, testing and evaluation has not been completed. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being available for a contract for studies, analyses, or consulting services entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for the procurement makes certain determinations with respect to such contract. Prohibits the use of DOD funds under this Act to dispose of specified unserviceable M1 rifles and carbines. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to pay more than 50 percent of a lump-sum reenlistment bonus. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to assign a supervisor's title or grade when the number of people he or she supervises is considered as a basis for such determination. Prohibits Navy funds appropriated by this or any other Act from being used to carry out an electromagnetic pulse program in the Chesapeake Bay area in connection with the Electromagnetic Pulse Radiation Environment Simulator for Ships (EMPRESS) program until the Secretary has made certain certifications to the Congress concerning the importance of such program. Earmarks specified funds appropriated under this Act for the mental health care demonstration project at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to pay health care providers under CHAMPUS for services determined to be not medically or psychologically necessary. Requires sums for FY 1993 pay raises for programs funded by this Act to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Prohibits funds available in this Act from being used for: (1) payments under a DOD contract with the Louisiana State University Medical Center involving the use of cats for wound research; or (2) conducting bone trauma research at the Letterman Army Institute of Research until the Secretary of the Army makes certain certifications. Requires the Secretary to include in any base closure and realignment plan submitted to the Congress a complete review for FY 1992 through 1996, which includes specified information relating to force structures and cost savings after such closure or realignment. Limits the amount of funds to be used for any single relocation of an organization, unit, activity, or function of DOD into or within the National Capital Region. Provides for the waiver of such limitation in certain cases. Requires each contract awarded by DOD in FY 1993 for construction or services performed in whole or in part in a State which is not contiguous with another State and which has an unemployment rate in excess of the national average to include a provision requiring the contractor to employ residents of such State who possess or would be able to promptly acquire the appropriate skills. Directs the Secretary to ensure that at least 50 percent of the Joint Service Missile Mission is in place at the Letterkenny Army Depot by the time that Systems Integration Management Activity and Depot Systems Command are scheduled to relocate to Rock Island Arsenal, Illinois. Earmarks specified funds appropriated in this Act to the Navy for expenses of the Kahoolawe Island Commission, which is authorized to delay until March 31, 1993, the submission of its final report. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used for producing more than two-thirds of the liquid gas requirements in-house at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam. Allows appropriated funds to be used for the pay, allowances, and benefits of Federal or District of Columbia employees who are members of the reserve or National Guard, who perform Federal or military service to enforce the law or provide assistance to civil authorities in the protection or saving of life or property, and who request and are granted leave. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used to: (1) initiate or continue any cost study pursuant to OMB Circular A-76; or (2) begin closing a military medical treatment facility unless the Secretary notifies the appropriations committees. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act for the American Forces Information Service from being used for any national or international political or psychological activities. Prohibits any unobligated balances available during FY 1993 from the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund from being obligated or expended to finance any grant or contract to conduct R&amp;D activities for the development or production of advanced materials, unless amounts are specifically appropriated in a subsequent appropriations Act. States as the policy of the United States the opposition to restrictive trades or boycotts fostered or imposed by foreign countries against other countries friendly to the United States or against any other U.S. person. Prohibits any DOD prime contract in excess of the small purchase threshold from being awarded to a foreign person, company, or entity unless such entity certifies to the Secretary that it does not comply with the secondary Arab boycott of Israel. Authorizes the Secretary to waive such certification requirement when necessary in the national security interest, but to notify the Congress quarterly of any contract in which a waiver was granted. Outlines exceptions to the prohibition. Requires all DOD software to be written in the programming language Ada in the absence of a special exemption. Authorizes the Secretary to adjust the wage rates of certain civilian employees hired for certain health care occupations as authorized for the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the direct care of veterans in the Department of Veterans Affairs. Prohibits funds available to DOD from being used for the training or utilization of psychologists in the prescription of drugs, except upon the findings and recommendations of a specified Army Blue Ribbon Panel. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to reduce the military or civilian medical and medical support personnel end strength at a base undergoing a partial closure or realignment, where more than one joint command is located, below the September 30, 1991, level. Earmarks funds made available in this Act for the Civil Air Patrol. Prohibits funds appropriated or made available in this Act from being used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the 815th Tactical Airlift Squadron of the Air Force Reserve if such action would reduce the WC-130 weather reconnaissance mission below the levels funded in this Act. Allows withdrawal credits to be made during FY 1993 by the Defense Business Operations Fund to the credit of current applicable appropriations of the DOD activity in connection with the acquisition of supplies that are repairable at a repair depot and that are capitalized into such Fund as the result of certain management changes. Requires, in the use of funds for the procurement of supplies or services appropriated by this Act, that qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely handicapped be afforded the maximum opportunity to participate as subcontractors and suppliers in the performance of DOD contracts. Provides that small business concerns participating in a subcontracting plan with DOD under the Small Business Act shall be given credit toward meeting the subcontracting goal required under such Act for any purchases made from qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind or other severely handicapped. Establishes under the direction and control of the Attorney General the National Drug Intelligence Center, to coordinate and consolidate drug intelligence from all national security and law enforcement agencies, and produce information regarding the structure, membership, finances, communications, and activities of drug trafficking organizations. Provides funding for the Center from DOD drug interdiction and counter-drug activities appropriations. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act for any military department to conduct bombing, gunnery, or similar munitions delivery training on Kahoolawe Island, Hawaii. Authorizes the Navy, during FY 1993, to provide notice to exercise options under the LEASAT program for the next fiscal year. Provides that, during FY 1993, third party payments for health care provided in a military medical facility shall be available for the use of such facility and shall be over and above the facility's direct budget amount. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used to: (1) procure a Multibeam Sonar Mapping System not manufactured in the United States; or (2) fill the commander's position at any military medical facility with a health care professional unless such candidate demonstrates professional administrative skills. Authorizes DOD to develop and procure the LANDSAT 7 vehicle. Earmarks funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense Health Program to continue CHAMPUS benefits until age 65 for a former member of the armed forces who is entitled to retired or retainer pay (or a dependent of such member) and who becomes eligible for hospital insurance benefits under part A of title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act solely on the grounds of physical disability. Provides limitations on the coverage of such expenses. Authorizes the Secretary to accept, during FY 1993, burdensharing contributions in the form of money from Japan, Korea, and Kuwait for the costs of local national employees, supplies, and services of DOD, to be credited to operation and maintenance appropriations and to be available for the same purposes and time period. Requires the Secretary to report quarterly to the Congress on contributions accepted. Prohibits obligations in excess of 70 percent of sales from DOD stock funds from being incurred against such stock funds during FY 1992. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated or made available in this Act to reduce or disestablish the operation of the Navy Reserve P-3 squadrons below the levels funded in this Act. Directs the Secretary of the Navy to obligate funds appropriated for FY 1991 through 1993 for the modernization of such aircraft that such Secretary intends to keep in the fleet for more than five years. Earmarks specified prior-year appropriated funds for payment of claims to U.S. military and civilian personnel for damages incurred as a result of the volcanic eruption of Mount Pinatubo in the Philippines. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being obligated or expended for any contract or grant with a university or other higher educational institution unless such grant or contract is audited under certain Federal Acquisition Regulation procedures. Requires any such institution to respond fully to any requests for financial information in connection with such grant or contract. Earmarks a specified sum of the funds appropriated in this Act to the defense agencies for R&amp;D for grants to specified institutions for laboratory and other efforts associated with research, development, and other programs of major importance to DOD. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act to finance activities of DOD federally-funded R&amp;D centers from being obligated or expended for such center if a member of its board of directors or trustees simultaneously serves on the board or trustees of a profit-making company under contract to DOD unless such center has a DOD-approved conflict of interests policy for its members. Reduces by $300,000,000 the total amount appropriated to DOD by this Act to reflect savings from the decreased use of non-federally funded R&amp;D consulting services by DOD. Requires the Secretary to allocate such amount among the military departments and defense agencies. Earmarks specified procurement funds appropriated by this Act for incentive payments to contractors who submit subcontracting plans in compliance with specified provision of the Indian Financing Act of 1974. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used to: (1) comply with or implement any provision issued in compliance with a memorandum of the Deputy Secretary of Defense concerning debarment from defense contracts for felony criminal convictions; or (2) procure carbon, alloy or armor steel plate for use in any Government-owned facility or DOD property which was not melted and rolled in the United States or Canada (with a waiver allowed on a case-by-case basis). Prohibits the use of funds from this or any other Act for the preparation of studies on the feasibility of removal and transportation of unitary chemical weapons from the eight chemical storage sites in the United States, as well as the potential future uses of nine chemical disposal facilities other than for the destruction of stockpiled chemical munitions. Provides an exception to such prohibition. Prohibits more than 15 percent of the funds available to DOD for sealift from being used to acquire ships constructed in foreign shipyards. Authorizes the Secretary, during FY 1993, to acquire the modification, depot maintenance, and repair of aircraft, vehicles, and vessels as well as the production of components and other defense-related articles through competition between DOD depot maintenance activities and private firms. Requires the Secretary, if he finds after consultation with the U.S. Trade Representative that a foreign country has violated a reciprocal defense procurement agreement by discriminating against certain types of products produced in the United States, to rescind the Secretary's blanket waiver of the Buy American Act with respect to such types of products produced in that foreign country. Directs the Secretary to report to the Congress on the amount of DOD purchases from foreign entities in FY 1993. Prohibits any funds appropriated or made available in this or any DOD appropriations Act during FY 1992 from being obligated for the procurement of ball or roller bearings other than in accordance with a specified Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation. Transfers specified FY 1991 Navy shipbuilding and conversion funds to Navy operation and maintenance for use in connection with the USS John F. Kennedy at the Philadelphia Naval Shipyard. Earmarks specified funds appropriated to the Army by this Act for the cleanup of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination affecting the sale of a parcel of land at Hamilton Air Force Base, Novato, California. Provides for the return of deposit of the purchaser of such parcel if it exercises its option to withdraw from such purchase. Authorizes the assignment of such purchase rights to any financially qualified entity. Provide reimbursement to the Air Force for expenditures in excess of a specified amount for such cleanup. Directs DOD to convey to the purchaser specified buildings and easements as deemed appropriate, without restriction. Allows the purchase contract to be amended to authorize the purchaser to manage and obtain contracts for the cleanup of a specified landfill site on such parcel, under specified conditions. Requires DOD to certify any cleanup made before payments to a purchaser for cleanup costs. Authorizes the Secretary, when considered to be in the best interest of the United States, to cancel up to $2,500 of a debt owed to the United States by a member or former member of the armed forces if it was incurred in connection with Operation Desert Shield/Storm. Transfers a specified cash balance in the Defense Business Operations Fund to DOD appropriations available for energy conservation improvement projects under the Department of Defense Energy Conservation Improvement Program. Allows appropriations contained in this Act that remain available at the end of the current fiscal year as a result of energy cost savings realized by DOD to remain available for obligation to the facilities responsible for such savings. Authorizes the Secretary to provide optional summer school programs authorized under the Defense Dependents Education Act of 1978 and to charge a fee for participation in such programs. Makes available through FY 1993 unobligated balances of the funds appropriated in the FY 1992 Department of Defense Appropriations Act for the World University Games and the 1992 Summer Olympics. Prohibits any funds appropriated by this Act from being obligated or expended for any program, project, or activity which is accomplished under a limited dissemination security control method until the Secretary reports certain cost and content information to specified congressional committees. Excepts programs, projects, and activities of the National Foreign Intelligence Program from such prohibition. Allows after December 31, 1992, voluntary separation incentives to be paid in such amounts as necessary from assets of the Voluntary Separation Incentive Fund. Requires amounts deposited during FY 1992 and 1993 to special accounts established for the transfer or disposal of DOD real property and the leasing of non-excess DOD property to be appropriated and available for facility maintenance and repair and for environmental restoration at the military installation in which the property was sold, transferred, or leased. Prohibits any funds available to DOD in this Act from being used to award a contract for the procurement of four-ton dolly jacks manufactured outside of the United States. Requires reimbursements received from NATO for the E-3 Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) radar system improvement program to be available to the Air Force until the end of FY 1994 for meeting its financial commitment to such program. Authorizes the Secretary to transfer to DOD appropriation accounts a specified amount of funds appropriated by this Act for the purposes authorized in the Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992 (nuclear waste disposal, nuclear weapons dismantling, and the demilitarization of defense industries). Authorizes the Secretary to make identical transfers for: (1) reducing the Soviet nuclear threat; and (2) international nonproliferation activities as authorized under the Weapons of Mass Destruction Control Act of 1992. Provides a purchase preference to certain domestic producers of high carbon ferrochromium and ferromanganese from chromite and manganese ore authorized for disposal from the National Defense Stockpile. Allows U.S. naval shipyards to participate in any manufacturing extension program financed by funds appropriated in this or any other Act. Prohibits funds available to DOD from being used to implement a specified defense management report decision pertaining to conventional ammunition which has the objective of financing such ammunition out of any funds other than those specifically appropriated or made available for the procurement of ammunition. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used for: (1) any nonappropriated fund activity of DOD that procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated funds for resale on a military installation located in the United States, unless such malt beverages and wine are procured in that State in which the military installation is located; or (2) the procurement or acquisition of certain offensive and defensive handguns and ammunition unless they are either the M9 9mm DOD standard for such guns and ammunition or procured for the Special Operations Forces. Earmarks specified DOD funds appropriated by this Act for the mitigation of environmental impacts on Indian lands resulting from DOD activities. Directs the Secretary, if he determines that a person has been convicted of intentionally affixing a \"Made in America\" label to any product sold in or shipped to the United States that is not made in America, to debar such person from contracting with the Government for at least three and up to five years. Authorizes FY 1992 DOD appropriations to be used to reimburse a reserve member who is not otherwise entitled to travel and transportation allowances and who occupies transient government housing while performing active duty for training or inactive duty training. Requires funds appropriated by this Act for the Defense Health Program to be used to maintain a minimum 50-bed medical care facility at Silas B. Hays Army Community Hospital at Fort Ord, California, during FY 1993. Reduces for FY 1993 the total amount appropriated to fund the Uniformed Services Treatment Facilities program and limits the amount of funds appropriated by this Act that may be used for such program. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to support the Tailhook Association. Requires DOD to reduce the authorized number of Senior Executive Service positions in DOD by a percentage equivalent to the percentage reduction in its civilian employment during FY 1993. Requires the Director of the Air National Guard, with funds appropriated by this Act, to establish a Command, Control, Communications and Intelligence planning office manned by personnel of specified ranks. States that as of September 1, 1993, no funds appropriated by this Act shall be available for the payment of compensation of personnel assigned to or serving in the National Foreign Intelligence Program in excess of 98 percent of such personnel assigned to or so serving on September 30, 1992. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act or made available to DOD from being deposited into the Pentagon Reservation Maintenance Revolving Fund for renovation, construction, or any purposes other than the actual and necessary day-to-day operation and maintenance. Incorporates into this Act the Classified Annex prepared by the Conference Committee to accompany the Conference Report on this bill. Directs the Secretary to make specified transfers of funds. Directs the Secretary of the Navy to increase the ceiling price of certain contracts and to make specified payments to the contractors within ten days after the enactment of this Act. Allows funds from the CINC Initiative Fund to be provided to the Director of the Joint Staff with respect to areas not within the responsibility of a commander of a combatant command. Provides priorities to be considered by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in considering Fund requests or in the provision of funds to the Director of the Joint Staff. Provides that any statutorily required analysis of the impact on the defense technology and industrial base of terminations or significant reductions of major R&amp;D and procurement programs of DOD must address only those actions recommended by DOD in its annual budget request and related amendments, supplemental requests, or proposed rescissions. Requires funds appropriated under this Act for DOD to be made available for the Overseas Workload Program under certain conditions. Considers Israel as in the European Theater for purposes of eligibility for contract competition in such Program. Requires competitive procedures to be used under such Program. Prohibits funds made available in this Act from being used to transport chemical munitions to the Johnston Atoll for the storing or demilitarizing of such munitions. Provides an exception. Authorizes the President to suspend such prohibition during a period of war. Requires the President to include in each annual defense budget request materials identifying the amounts requested in that fiscal year for salaries and expenses related to administrative activities of DOD, the military departments, and the defense agencies. Prohibits the obligation of funds from this Act for implementing any test of changes in DOD's domestic interstate household goods program as proposed in the Federal Register on June 29, 1992. Directs the Secretary to provide for the conduct of an independent study, with participation by two or more federally funded R&amp;D centers, of the Trident missile system. Requires a report. Appropriates funds to cover the cost of grants to persons engaged in commercial fisheries as provided under the Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986. Amends such Act to authorize appropriations to the Department of Commerce for FY 1992 to enable the Secretary of Commerce to award such grants to persons engaged in commercial fisheries and for coverage as a fishery resource disaster of losses resulting from certain hurricanes and any other natural disaster. Provides grant requirements and limits. Earmarks funds appropriated by this Act for drug interdiction and counter-narcotics purposes for modifying and improving with radars up to 15 T-47 reconnaissance aircraft. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the Army Corps of Engineers should evaluate new concrete construction technologies for regions susceptible to hurricanes; and (2) the Secretary of Defense should ensure that such new technologies should be utilized to the extent that they are cost-effective. Directs the Secretary to report to the Congress on whether the United States should participate with other Western Hemisphere countries in an international rapid deployment force for use in international crises in the Western Hemisphere. Requires the Secretary, during FY 1993, to approve or disapprove a proposed interim lease of a facility at a closing military installation. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the governments of the United States and Saudi Arabia should work diligently and without delay to resolve the outstanding commercial disputes identified in a specified letter of the Commerce Department dated May 27, 1992. Requires a report. Prohibits 35 percent of certain funds earmarked for certain military aircraft from being obligated or expended until the Secretary submits a report on the military and fiscal validity of such aircraft programs. Earmarks specified funds appropriated by this Act for the Strategic Defense Initiative. Prohibits funds provided in this Act from being available for use by a military department for the operation of any military school, college, or academy until the Chief of Staff of each of the armed forces provides written certification to the defense and appropriations committees that measures have been taken to publish and enforce regulations which expressly prohibit discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Earmarks specified Army R&amp;D funds appropriated by this Act for the National Defense Environmental Corporation for the continued establishment and operation of the National Defense Center for Environmental Excellence. Limits during FY 1993 the total amount of individual loans, guarantees, purchase agreements, and other actions aimed at expediting production and deliveries or services to aid in carrying out Government contracts for the procurement of materials or the performance of services for the national defense, as authorized under provisions of the Defense Production Act of 1950. Modifies the project for Bonneville Lock and Dam, Columbia River, Oregon and Washington, to direct the Secretary of the Army to complete the relocation of the city of North Bonneville, Washington, by taking certain actions. Directs the Secretary of Defense to participate in an infrastructure demonstration program conducted by the Regional Equipment Center, Cambria County, Pennsylvania, under certain conditions. Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary, for transfer to the Secretary of Energy, for expenses necessary in acquiring, transporting, and drawing crude oil to be stored in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve for national defense purposes. Authorizes the Secretary to expend a specified amount during FY 1993 or thereafter for acquiring specified real property in the State of Washington from the Coast Oyster Company for purposes of guaranteeing tideland access for American Indian tribes in the Pudget Sound region. States that during FY 1993, funds available to DOD and used in the acquisition of a system or item containing manufactured carbonyl iron powders shall be available only for a system or item containing domestically manufactured carbonyl iron powders. Allows the Secretary to waive such prohibition in the national interest. Prohibits funds appropriated or made available to DOD from being used to prevent or delay the transfer and execution of the tactical missile maintenance consolidation to Letterkenny Army Depot, or for a depot selection competition to assess depot level tactical missile maintenance. Allows funds available for disaster relief activities of DOD to be used to provide bridge financing for the National Guard for pay and allowances of its members assisting in emergencies, natural disasters, and other such circumstances, until a Federal emergency has been declared. Makes available Navy operation and maintenance funds appropriated by this Act for payments arising out of the deaths and injuries that resulted from the accidental striking of the Turkish ship Mauvenet by a missile fired from the aircraft carrier Saratoga on October 1, 1992. Amends the International Emergency Economic Powers Act to reduce from $50,000 to $10,000 the fine for violating an order or authority exercised by the President when dealing with an unusual or extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United States. Authorizes the energy, educational, and medical facilities listed in a conference agreement amendment to H.R. 5373 (Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1993) and makes specified funds available for those facilities. Appropriates additional funds for various military construction projects in Maryland, North Carolina, and Hawaii. Authorizes the Secretary to obligate specified funds appropriated by this Act to provide goods, services, and other support for international peacekeeping and humanitarian relief efforts under the authorities of the United Nations Participation Act of 1945. Directs the Secretary of the Army to reevaluate the project for flood control and recreation, Sacramento and American Rivers, California, as described in the feasibility report of the Chief of Engineers of July 1, 1992. Directs such Secretary to construct the Natomas levee feature of such project after entering into appropriate local cost-sharing agreements. Provides for certain cost credits and reimbursements and directs the Secretary to report to the appropriate congressional committees with regard to such project. Directs such Secretary to also further evaluate and report on other features and operational procedures which should be implemented to provide flood protection sufficiently high for a major urban area subject to risk of frequent floods causing great economic, environmental, and social damage. Requires certain consultation before such evaluation and report. Recognizes the urgency of ensuring that Folsom Dam in California is operated correctly, safely, efficiently, and prudently for flood control purposes. Requires the Secretaries of the Army and the Interior to jointly develop and implement a flood management plan for the American River and Folsom Dam to ensure prompt, reliable, and full utilization of the flood control capability at Folsom Dam and other existing water resources development projects located in the American River Watershed in California. Earmarks specified funds appropriated by this Act for the settlement of subcontractor claims associated with a contract for the construction of an aircraft maintenance management facility at Eielson Air Force Base. Includes Lancaster as one of the cities in which the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania will be held. Earmarks funds appropriated by this Act to authorize the Secretary to make a grant to the American Red Cross for reimbursement for disaster relief expenditures for Guam, American Samoa, and Puerto Rico. Directs the Secretary of the Navy to increase the contract price for the T-AGS 39 and 40 design and construction contract. Directs the Secretary of the Air Force to enter into a supplemental agreement to an Air Force prime contract relating to a heavy lift expendable launch vehicle to address certain aspects of such program and provide certain contractor and subcontractor payments under the contracts. Authorizes the Director of the CIA, with funds appropriated in this Act for the National Foreign Intelligence Program, to transfer a specified amount to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for special (classified) programs. Appropriates additional funds to DOD to be used only for transfer to the Coast Guard for FY 1993 for operating expenses and for reserve training. Prohibits any funds available to DOD from being obligated or expended for the construction of a ground wave emergency network site in the State of Massachusetts in FY 1993. Enacts into law S. 2681 (Native Hawaiian Health Care Improvement Act) as passed by the Senate on September 12, 1992. (S. 2681 was actually passed by the Senate on 8/7/92, and appears to be incorporated into this Act.)"