"9/27/1991--Conference report filed in House. Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Veterans Affairs\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1992 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for: (1) the Veterans Benefits Administration; (2) the Veterans Health Administration; and (3) departmental administration, including the Office of the Inspector General and the National Cemetery System. Authorizes the transfer of funds among specified appropriations. Authorizes the use of appropriations to procure consultant services. Authorizes the use of certain appropriations to pay prior year accrued obligations for certain benefits. Authorizes the use of funds by the Veterans Health Administration for a rural mobile clinic in Vermont. Makes construction funds available for the purchase of land adjacent to the Veterans Medical Center, Beckley, West Virginia. Requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to obligate appropriations made available for the purchase, lease-purchase, or lease of a capital asset in accordance with the scorekeeping guidelines found in the conference report accompanying H.R. 5835, 101st Congress (Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990). Authorizes the use of National Cemetery System funds for the operation and maintenance of the National Memorial Cemetery of Arizona (formerly the Arizona Veterans Memorial Cemetery). Makes such authorization effective until: (1) enactment of legislation concerning funding for such cemetery; or (2) November 30, 1991, whichever occurs first. Requires the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to comply with regulations to be issued by the Department of Health and Human Services pursuant to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Housing and Urban Development\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1992 for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for: (1) housing programs, including Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere Grants (HOPE Grants); (2) community planning and development; (3) research and technology; (4) fair housing activities; and (5) management and administration, including the Office of the Inspector General and personal services and travel of departmental headquarters. Limits the amounts of specified loan obligations, including guarantee commitments of the Government National Mortgage Association. Makes funds available for the renewal of expiring low-income subsidy contracts. Makes funds available for grants to public housing agencies for use in eliminating drug-related crime in public housing projects. Makes funds available for the low-income moderate rehabilitation program to be used to assist homeless individuals. Transfers assets and liabilities of the revolving fund for rehabilitation loans to the revolving fund for liquidating programs under the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 1955. Establishes in the Office of the Secretary of HUD an Office of Lead Based Paint Abatement and Poisoning Prevention, headed by a career Senior Executive Service employee who shall be responsible for all lead-based paint abatement and poisoning prevention activities. Allows the following municipalities to retain land disposition proceeds from certain financially closed-out projects not paid to HUD: (1) the city of New London, Connecticut; (2) the Housing Authority of the city of Jefferson, Missouri; (3) the city of Vallejo, California; and (4) the Urban Renewal Authority of the city of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Allows the cities of Newburyport and Malden, Massachusetts, to retain categorical settlement grant funds or urban renewal grant funds after the financial closeout of specified urban renewal projects. Directs the Secretary to cancel the indebtedness of Calhoun Falls, South Carolina, relating to a public facilities loan. Limits the number of Senior Executive Service positions other than career-appointees in HUD. Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to establish a separate fair market rental rate for Monroe County, Pennsylvania. Amends the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act and the Housing Act of 1959 to allow service coordinators in housing for the elderly projects. Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to give priority to public housing applications for new construction, acquisition, or acquisition and rehabilitation in areas with an inadequate supply of housing for low-income families. Amends the Housing Act of 1937 to revise administrative provisions for determining whether an agency is troubled with respect to the modernization of a housing program. Prohibits the use of funds to implement a specified rule relating to low-income public and Indian housing vacancies. Revises provisions relating to performance indicators for public housing agencies. Directs the Secretary to cancel the indebtedness of the Sale Creek Utility District in Soddy Daisy, Tennessee, relating to a specified public facilities loan. Directs the Secretary to transfer title to the repossessed property known as the Roosevelt Homes Project in Davenport, Iowa, to a nonprofit organization selected by the city of Davenport. Provides for the reversion of such property back to the Secretary if it is used for other than an integrated program of shelter and social services to the homeless or for other than nonprofit use. Provides for the commencement of the term for housing assistance for the Ganado Acres project in Apache County, Arizona. Sets forth provisions related to noncompetitive procurement purchase of general liability insurance by public housing authorities from a nonprofit insurance entity. Sets forth staffing ceilings in program offices in the headquarters offices of HUD. Amends the Housing Act of 1937 to allow the use of public and Indian housing modernization funds for lead-based paint risk assessments and interim containment measures. Provides that housing authorities who have paid for risk assessments in FY 1991 shall be paid or reimbursed for modernization funds in FY 1992. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 to modify the 25 percent presale requirement for the award of Nehemiah housing opportunity grants. Declares that for purposes of the United States Housing Act of 1937 members of the Pascua Yaqui tribe who reside in Guadalupe, Arizona, shall be considered (without fiscal year limitation) as residing on an Indian reservation or other Indian area.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Independent Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1992 to the: (1) American Battle Monuments Commission; (2) Consumer Product Safety Commission; (3) Court of Veterans Appeals; (4) Department of Defense-Civil for cemeterial expenses, Army; (5) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), including the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board; (6) Executive Office of the President for the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental Quality, the National Space Council, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Points of Light Foundation; (7) Federal Emergency Management Agency; (8) General Services Administration for the Consumer Information Center; (9) Department of Health and Human Services; (10) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); (11) National Credit Union Administration for the obligations of the Central Liquidity Facility; (12) National Science Foundation; (13) Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; (14) Selective Service System; (15) the Commission on National and Community Service; (16) the National Commission on Financial Institution Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement; and (17) the National Commission on American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian Housing. Sets forth limitations on average employment in EPA headquarters. Withholds certain funds from the EPA until the Administrator provides to the congressional Committees on Appropriations the Agency's Strategic Plan. Makes EPA funds available for a grant to the Christopher Columbus Center Development, Inc. for planning and design of the Christopher Columbus Center of Marine Research and Exploration in Baltimore, Maryland. Directs the Administrator of EPA, within 12 months of enactment of this Act, to promulgate final regulations governing lead-based paint abatement activities to ensure that individuals engaged in such activities are properly trained, that training programs are accredited, that contractors are certified, and that laboratories engaged in testing substances are certified. Provides for the awarding of training grants for such purposes. Directs the Administrator to maintain a facility within EPA to conduct biological testing of pesticides. Makes funds available for use by the Director of the National Acid Precipitation Assessment Program in implementing certain provisions of the Clean Air Act. Makes funds available for the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board. Makes funds available to the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the installation of new sirens in Kansas with a 25 percent local match in towns under 5,000 and a 50 percent local match in towns over 5,000. Makes funds available to the Interagency Council on the Homeless as authorized under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act. Prohibits the use of funds by NASA with respect to any fiscal year to fund grants, contracts, or other agreements with an expected duration of more than one year when a primary effect of such grant, contract, or agreement is to provide a guaranteed customer base for, or establish an anchor tenancy in, new commercial space hardware or services, unless an appropriations Act approves such new hardware or services. Makes funds available for the following NASA programs: (1) continued construction, equipping, and integration of a Classroom of the Future on the campus of Wheeling Jesuit College; (2) planning and design for facilities in support of the Consortium for International Earth Science Information Networks (CIESIN); (3) construction and equipping a new space dynamics lab at Utah State University; (4) construction of integrated facilities to support the National Technology Transfer Center; (5) construction and outfitting of the Christopher Columbus Center of Marine Research and Exploration; and (6) an independent software validation and verification facility at West Virgina University. Sets forth average employment in NASA headquarters for FY 1992. Prohibits the National Science Foundation from purchasing aircraft other than one transferred from other Federal agencies for use in the United States Antarctic Program. Makes funds available to the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation to provide local neighborhood revitalization organizations revolving homeownership lending capital, and equity capital for affordable lower-income rental and mutual housing association projects.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Corporations\n    Authorizes certain corporations and agencies of HUD to make commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as necessary to carry out provisions under the Government Corporation Control Act. Allows any collections by such corporations and agencies to be used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments to the extent provided under this Act, with specified exceptions. Makes funds available for payment of expenditures of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Fund and for the Office of Inspector General of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Directs the Office of Inspector General of the Resolution Trust Corporation to review and report to the Congress on each of certain agreements under the Federal Home Loan Bank Act and determine whether there is any legal basis for rescission of the agreement, including but not limited to, fraud, misrepresentation, failure to disclose a material fact, failure to perform under the terms of the agreement, improprieties in the bidding process, failure to comply with any law, rule or regulation regarding the validy of the agreement, or any other legal basis sufficient for rescission.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Specifies certain uses, limitations, and prohibitions on uses of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1992 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Prohibits the use of funds by the Department of Veterans Affairs for any new lease of real property above a specified amount unless a report is submitted to the congressional Committees on Appropriations and a period of 30 days expires after submission of such report. Directs the Resolution Trust Corporation to report to the Congress at least once a month on its review of certain insolvent institution cases resolved by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. Amends Federal law with respect to veterans' medical care to extend from September 30, 1991, to September 30, 1992, the requirement for veterans to make copayments for medications. Amends the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1990 to extend through FY 1992 the amendments made to modify health care categories and copayments for veterans. Increases the amount made available for veterans' medical care for use only for procurement of medical equipment. Provides that such veterans' medical care provisions shall not take effect if the amount provided for medical care to the Department of Veterans Affairs is less than a specified amount plus reimbursements. Prohibits the use of prices for drugs and biologicals paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs, and prices for drugs and biologicals on contracts administered by such Department, to calculate Medicaid rebates paid by drug and biological manufacturers. Directs the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to attempt to negotiate new contracts, or renegotiate current contracts, for drugs and biologicals with the view toward achieving a price comparable to, or lower than, the price charged the Department by the manufacturer on September 1, 1990, increased by the FY 1991 medical consumer price index, as determined by the Secretary. Requires the Secretary to report to specified congressional committees on the percentage of price increase to the Department for each drug and biological listed in the Federal Supply Classification (FSC) Group 65 of the Federal Supply Schedule. Provides that this provision is effective until: (1) enactment of legislation concerning the price of drugs and biologicals paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs; or (2) June 30, 1992, whichever first occurs. Prohibits the use of any funds to move the Federal Housing and Urban Development offices from downtown Jacksonville, Florida, or to finance the operation of such offices in any area of Jacksonville other than the downtown area (as defined by the Downtown Development Authority of Jacksonville). Requires the General Accounting Office to prepare and submit to the Congress a study of the actuarial soundness of the Federal Housing Administration's single family mortgage insurance program and the solvency of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund. Requires the study to analyze the actuarial soundness of the Fund and its ability to meet the capital ratio targets established in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 under various economic and policy scenarios. Directs the Administrator of the EPA to establish within EPA an eleventh region comprised solely of Alaska, including a regional office. Amends the Federal Home Loan Bank Act to extend the period under which low-income homebuyers have the opportunity to purchase single-family properties acquired by the Resolution Trust Corporation."