"7/28/1992--Passed House amended. Supplemental Appropriations, Transfers, and Rescissions Act, 1992 - Makes supplemental appropriations for FY 1992. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies\n    Makes additional appropriations available to: (1) the Department of Commerce for the International Trade Administration and the Foreign Fishing Observer Fund of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (2) the Department of Justice for debt collection legal activities; (3) the Department of State for contributions for international peacekeeping activities; (4) the Judiciary for defender services of the Courts of Appeals, District Courts, and other Judicial Services; and (5) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for salaries and expenses. Extends FY 1992 supplemental appropriations made to the National Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal for salaries and expenses through FY 1993. Amends the National Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal Act to change the reporting date of such Commission to August 1, 1993.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Defense\n    Military - Makes additional amounts available until September 30, 1992, to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Defense agencies for operation and maintenance and environmental restoration. Requires a specified amount of defense agency operation and maintenance funds to be used to provide educational assistance for the education of dependents of members of the Armed Forces in areas which have a significant increase of such dependents as a result of relocation or realignment of Armed Forces personnel. Requires a specified amount of environmental restoration funds to be obligated and expended not later than September 30, 1992. Makes additional amounts available for obligation until September 30, 1993, to defense agencies for research, development, test and evaluation. Makes supplemental appropriations to the Pentagon Reservation Maintenance Revolving Fund and the Office of the Inspector General. Provides the transfer of additional funds for additional incremental costs associated with operations in and around the Persian Gulf resulting from Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm. Makes supplemental appropriations for military personnel through a transfer of funds. Makes supplemental appropriations for military operation and maintenance through a transfer of funds to remain available until September 30, 1994. Provides an additional amount for operation and maintenance of defense agencies. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to make adjustments to amounts previously transferred in specified other Acts relating to Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm for the purpose of adjusting amounts which may be transferred to military personnel and operation and maintenance appropriations. Makes additional amounts available, to be derived by transfer to Army National Guard personnel and Army and Navy operation and maintenance. Terminates the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund through a rescission of funds.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Amends the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers for Relief From the Effects of Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs, and for Incremental Costs of \"Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm\" Act of 1992 to extend FY 1992 funds through FY 1993 for support of the Kurdish Protection or Ready Reaction Force. Directs the Secretary of Defense to transfer, without reimbursement, five Black Hawk helicopters, together with associated spares, from the United States Army to the Drug Enforcement Administration. Amends the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1992 to remove obligation authority for a Phase II V-22 Full Scale Engineering Development program related to the V-22 aircraft program.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies\n    Makes additional funds available through FY 1993 to the Department of Labor for advances to the unemployment trust fund and other funds. Prohibits the Secretary of Labor from implementing or administering final or proposed regulations concerning: (1) a category of \"helper\" workers; and (2) apprenticeship programs in the construction industry.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Department of Defense\n    Military Construction - Makes an additional amount available to remain available until expended, including a transfer of funds, for environmental restoration of bases slated for closure and realignment.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies\n    Makes supplemental appropriations to the Department of Veterans Affairs for: (1) the Veterans Benefits Administration; (2) the vocational rehabilitation loans program account; (3) the Veterans Health Administration; and (4) department administration. Merges the capital grants and rental assistance funds provided to the housing for the elderly program and the housing for the disabled program of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Makes additional amounts available, to be derived by transfer, for certain low-income housing contract renewals. Rescinds a specified amount of FY 1992 for low-income housing projects and makes such funds available for FY 1993. Rescinds certain FY 1992 funds for the National Commission on Manufactured Housing and makes such amount available for the Commission in FY 1993. Increases previously appropriated funds for personnel compensation and benefits for the Commissioners of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. Rescinds FY 1992 amounts earmarked for financial assistance for legal representation costs of the Court of Veterans Appeals. Makes such amounts available until September 30, 1994 for salaries and expenses of such Court. Authorizes the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to award a grant under the Solid Waste Disposal Act for the purchase of a building and associated costs to support a program for the environmental restoration of the Lackawanna Valley, Pennsylvania. Makes additional amounts available to the National Commission on Severely Distressed Public Housing through a funds transfer of amount provided to the Department of Housing and Urban Development.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Department of Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies\n    Amends the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers for Relief From the Effects of Natural Disasters, for Other Urgent Needs, and for Incremental Cost of \"Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm\" Act of 1992 to allow the Commodity Credit Corporation to make grants to assist low-income migrant and seasonal farmworkers. Makes additional amounts available to meet the needs of the emergency watershed protection program.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Energy and Water Development\n    Makes additional funds available to the Department of the Interior to meet emergency needs for areas stricken by drought.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Department of Transportation and Related Agencies\n    Amends the Federal Transit Act to require the expenditure of administrative and research funds for grants to North Carolina A. &amp; T. State University and the University of South Florida and a consortium of Florida A &amp; M, Florida State University, and Florida International University."