"9/29/1992--Passed House amended. Radon Awareness and Disclosure Act of 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Two-Year Extension of Indoor Radon Abatement Provisions of Toxic Substances Control Act\n    Amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to extend the authorization of appropriations for: (1) grants and technical assistance to States for radon programs; (2) an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) publication entitled \"A Citizen's Guide to Radon\"; (3) model construction standards and techniques for controlling radon levels in new buildings; and (4) regional radon training centers.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Radon Testing\n    Directs the EPA Administrator to establish a program that requires: (1) products offered for sale or devices used in connection with public services for radon measurement to meet minimum performance criteria; and (2) operators of devices or persons employing techniques used in connection with public services for radon measurement to meet a minimum level of proficiency. Requires a list of devices meeting such criteria and a summary of current radon measurement technology to be made available to the public. Prescribes civil penalties for violations of this title. Directs the Administrator to establish a fee schedule for persons manufacturing or operating such devices or employing such techniques. Provides for a waiver or reduction of fees for persons who agree to test for radon in public and nonprofit child care facilities, schools, hospitals, nursing homes, or other health care facilities. Provides for the deposit of fees in a Radon Service Account. Requires the Administrator to: (1) implement an outreach program to provide information about radon to the medical community; (2) develop and distribute informational material concerning radon tailored to doctors in general practice and in specialties related to lung cancer; (3) evaluate current efforts to promote radon testing and ways to increase testing during real estate transactions; and (4) report to the Congress on alternative strategies for promoting such testing. Directs the Administrator to develop and implement a strategy for identifying areas and buildings within the United States with exceptionally high levels of radon and for reducing such radon levels.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    President's Commission on Radon Awareness\n    Establishes the President's Commission on Radon Awareness to: (1) examine existing public awareness programs concerning radon; (2) act as a coordinating body for the donation of resources to assist in programs and strategies to raise awareness of the risks of exposure to radon; (3) encourage media outlets to increase radon awareness; and (4) evaluate the accuracy and effectiveness and assist in the update of such programs and strategies."