"10/3/1992--Conference report filed in House. Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Congressional Operations\n    Congressional Operations Appropriations Act, 1993 - Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for the operations of the Senate for the following: (1) mileage of the Vice President and Senators; (2) expense allowances of Senate leadership; (3) representation allowances of the Majority and Minority Leaders; (4) compensation of officers and employees; (5) expense allowances of Senate officers; (6) contingent expenses of the Senate, including expenses of the U.S. Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control; and (7) official mail costs. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriation Act, 1978 to revise the legislative assistance allowance for Senate employees. Authorizes the Secretary of the Senate to establish a Senate Gift Shop for the sale of gift items to Members of the Senate, staff, and the general public. Establishes a revolving fund within the Senate contingent fund for such purpose. Appropriates funds for FY 1993 for the operations of the House of Representatives for the for the following: (1) House leadership offices; (2) Members' clerk hire; (3) committee employees; (4) studies by the Committee on the Budget; (5) salaries and expenses of standing, special and select committees; (6) salaries and expenses and temporary personal services of House Information Systems, under the direction of the Committee on House Administration; (7) allowances and expenses; (8) salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives Child Care Center; (9) studies and investigations by the Committee on Appropriations; (10) official mail costs; and (11) salaries of officers and employees. Allows the transfer of amounts among specified House accounts upon the approval of the Committee on Appropriations. Makes permanent law the resolution which established certain civilian support positions for the Capitol Police with respect to the House of Representatives. Provides authority to transfer available funds for the operations of the Director of Non-legislative and Financial Services, the Office of Inspector General, and the Office of General Counsel. Prohibits any such transfer from including the transfer of any function of the Capitol Guide Service. Establishes an account for fees deposited by Members and Officers of the House for the services of the Attending Physician. Makes appropriations for the following joint items: (1) the Joint Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies of 1993; (2) the Joint Economic Committee and the Joint Committee on Printing; (3) the Joint Committee on Taxation; (4) the Office of the Attending Physician; (5) the Capitol Police Board; (6) the Capitol Guide Service; and (7) the Special Services Office. Appropriates funds for the following congressional offices: (1) the Office of Technology Assessment; (2) the Congressional Budget Office; (3) the Architect of the Capitol; (4) the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress; and (5) the Government Printing Office (GPO). Establishes in the Treasury a revolving fund for the House of Representatives gymnasium for deposit of dues from gym users.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Other Agencies\n    Appropriates funds for the following congressional agencies: (1) the Botanic Garden; (2) the Library of Congress; (3) the Architect of the Capitol for Library buildings and grounds; (4) the Copyright Royalty Tribunal; (5) GPO for the Office of Superintendent of Documents; and (6) the General Accounting Office (GAO). Restricts the amount of funds to be accepted and obligated by the Architect of the Capitol for constructing, equipping, and maintaining the National Garden. Makes funds available to the Library of Congress for expenses of attendance at certain meetings, of which a specified amount is set aside for the Congressional Research Service. Prohibits the Library from using appropriated funds to administer a flexible or compressed work schedule for certain managers or supervisors. Limits the number of employees which the Library may employ with appropriated funds from other Federal agencies to cover general and administrative overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for such agencies. Limits the expenditures by the Library on official representation and reception expenses for the incentive awards program and the Overseas Field Offices. Prohibits the use of such funds for the procurement of any printing related to the production of government publications, unless such procurement is by or through GPO. Allows certain exceptions to such prohibition.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth various specified requirements for and prohibitions or limitations on the use of appropriations. Directs the Architect of the Capitol to develop an overall telecommunications plan for the agencies of the legislative branch. Authorizes the transfer of funds from the Library of Congress for salaries and expenses to the Architect of the Capitol for the purpose of rental, lease, or other agreement respecting temporary storage and warehouse space for use by the Library during FY 1993. Authorizes the retention of revenues received by the House of Representatives Child Care Center for salaries and expenses. Removes Members of the House of Representatives from the two-page limitation on mass mailings. Rescinds authority for Members of the House to make mass mailings outside of their congressional districts. Amends the Judiciary Office Building Development Act to relieve the United States Capitol Police from the responsibility of policing the interior of the Federal Judiciary Building. Authorizes the U.S. Capitol Police to police the building, including the interior and exterior, and other improvements and to make arrests for law enforcement violations. Extends the authority for art conservation projects in the Senate. Authorizes Senators to transfer up to $100,000 from their official mail appropriation to their official personnel and office expense account. Authorizes the Secretary of the Senate to withhold or collect fees for the services of the attending physician and for Senate health and fitness facilities. Establishes in the Senate a Bipartisan Task Force on Senate Coverage to: (1) review all existing statutes under which the Senate is covered; (2) review Senate rules to determine whether the Senate is effectively complying with other statutes that could be applied to the Senate; and (3) recommend the extent to which, and the way in which, such statutes should be applied to the Senate. Specifies such statutes as conflict statutes, the Freedom of Information Act, the Privacy Act, and labor laws. Requires a report to the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader not later than September 1, 1993. Amends the Government Employee Rights Act of 1991 to repeal provisions which make Members of Congress personally liable for the violation of the civil rights of Senate employees. Continues the authority of the ad hoc Joint Committee on the Organization of the Congress until December 31, 1993. Amends the Judiciary Office Building Development Act to authorize the Architect of the Capitol to lease and occupy space in the Federal Judiciary Building. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1992 to provide for the payment of benefits of employees of the House Day Care Center. Provides for the payment of the employer share of certain benefits for Senate day care employees. Extends, from September 30, 1992, to September 30, 1993, the date by which the Capitol Police must implement a unified payroll. Rescinds an amount from House official mail funds. Extends the termination date of the United States International Narcotics Control Commission to September 30, 1997. Establishes the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Capitol to oversee the development of appropriate projects and activities to observe in 1993 the 200th anniversary of the laying of the cornerstone of the United States Capitol. Amends the Migrant and Seasonal Agricultural Worker Protection Act to provide that where a State workers' compensation law is applicable and coverage is provided for a migrant or seasonal agricultural worker, the workers' compensation benefits shall be the exclusive remedy for loss of such worker in the case of bodily injury or death."