"11/26/1991--Conference report filed in House. United States-China Act of 1991 - Prohibits the President from recommending for a 12-month period in 1992 continuation of a waiver of human rights and emigration requirements for nondiscriminatory treatment (most-favored-nation treatment) for China under the Trade Act of 1974 unless a specified report is submitted to the Congress stating that China has accounted for and released prisoners who dissented in Tiananmen Square on June 3, 1989, and made overall significant progress in: (1) preventing gross violations of human rights (including in Tibet); (2) ending religious persecution and releasing members of religious groups who were detained for their religious beliefs; (3) removing restrictions (including in Tibet) on freedom of the press and on broadcasts by Voice of America; (4) terminating harassment of Chinese citizens in the United States, including the return and renewal of passports confiscated as retribution for prodemocracy activities; (5) ensuring access of international human rights monitoring or humanitarian groups to prisoners; (6) ensuring freedom from torture and from inhumane prison conditions; (7) terminating prohibitions on peaceful assembly and demonstration imposed after June 3, 1989; (8) adhering to the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong; (9) preventing exports to the United States of products manufactured by convict or forced labor and allowing U.S. officials and internatinal humanitarian organizations to inspect detention centers suspected of producing such products; (10) fulfilling its commitment to engage in high-level discussions on human rights issues; (11) providing protection for U.S. patent, copyright, and other intellectual property rights; (12) providing U.S. exporters access to Chinese markets, lowering tariffs, removing nontariff barriers, and increasing the purchase of U.S. goods and services; (13) ceasing unfair trade practices against the United States which are unreasonable and discriminatory and which burden or restrict U.S. commerce; (14) adopting a national policy consistent with specified missile, nuclear, and chemical and biological control agreements; and (15) assuring the United States that it will not assist any nonnuclear weapons state in acquiring nuclear weapons or materials. Requires the President to undertake efforts to ensure that members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) take similar action to restrict trade with China if the United States denies or terminates China's most-favored-nation status. Amends the Tariff Act of 1930 to set forth civil penalties for persons who import convict-manufactured goods in violation of the prohibition on importation. Requires the President, if he recommends an extension of China's most-favored-nation treatment, to include in a specified document to be submitted to the Congress a report on China's progress in implementing the above-mentioned measures."