"6/22/1992--Passed House amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Authorization of Appropriations\n    Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1992 - Authorizes appropriations for the Coast Guard for: (1) operation and maintenance; (2) acquisition, construction, rebuilding, and improvement of aids to navigation, shore and offshore facilities, vessels, and aircraft; (3) research, development, test, and evaluation; (4) retirement pay and benefits; (5) alteration or removal of bridges; and (6) environmental compliance and restoration. Authorizes the Coast Guard end-of-year strength for active duty personnel and the average military training student loads. Earmarks funds for specified purposes relating to Group Cape Hatteras, North Carolina; Traverse City, Michigan; Houston, Texas; Galveston, Texas; and Buzzards Bay, Massachusetts. Declares specified bridges in Louisiana and Massachusetts to be unreasonable obstructions to navigation. Imposes a Buy American Requirement on Coast Guard buoy chain procurement. Amends Federal law, popularly known as the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act or the Federal Aid in Fish Restoration Act, to earmark certain funds for State recreational boating safety programs under other Federal provisions.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Boating Safety\n    Amends Federal law to create an increased civil penalty for subsequent offenses of operating a vessel while intoxicated. Mandates reports to specified congressional committees regarding: (1) a plan to increase the availability of voluntary safe boating education to individuals under seventeen years old; and (2) ways to enlarge the mission of the Coast Guard Auxiliary and to increase Auxiliary participation in Coast Guard activities. Mandates a demonstration project in the Ninth Coast Guard District in conjunction with other appropriate Government agencies to increase coordination of enforcement of boating laws and regulations.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Miscellaneous\n    Amends Federal law relating to Coast Guard user fees to prohibit a fee or charge for the inspection of training ships operated by State maritime academies. Subjects foreign vessels certified by countries with inspection laws similar to those of the United States to an inspection to ensure that the condition of the vessel is (currently, only the condition of the vessel's propulsion and lifesaving equipment are) as stated in its certificate. Prohibits a foreign vessel (currently, a foreign or domestic vessel of more than a specified size) from departing from a U.S. port with passengers who embarked at that port if the vessel does not comply with the standards stated in the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea. Mandates submission to specified congressional committees of a report on the application of the V-22 Osprey tiltrotor technology to Coast Guard missions. Mandates a memorandum of agreement between the Coast Guard and the Department of Commerce regarding fisheries enforcement practices and procedures, including providing an opportunity to appear in person to respond to violation charges. Requires installation of a radar beacon aid-to-navigation at the Eckholms Islands near Sitka, Alaska. Requires, if the Secretary of Transportation determines that the Coast Guard failed to investigate the adequacy, availability, and financial soundness of the security for payment to subcontractors under a specified contract, that the Secretary pay the subcontractors out of amounts authorized under this Act. Mandates a study of the application of the Driver's Thermal Viewer to Coast Guard missions. Prohibits the grade of the director of the Coast Guard band from being higher than commander (currently, higher than lieutenant commander). Replaces provisions relating to dredging by foreign-built dredges with provisions allowing dredging in U.S. navigable waters or the Exclusive Economic Zone only if the vessel is built or documented in the United States and owned or chartered by a U.S. citizen. Sets forth exceptions. Amends provisions of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920 relating to transportation of merchandise between U.S. points in other than domestic built and documented vessels to include as merchandise any merchandise owned by the U.S. Government or a State. Declares that a specified public law relating to transportation of valueless material or any dredged material does not apply to a vessel: (1) transporting valueless material or valueless dredged material; and (2) that had, on August 1, 1989, a certificate under specified provisions. Prohibits issuance of a citation for failure to pay a recreational boat fee if the vessel's owner or operator provides reasonable evidence of prior payment of the fee to a Coast Guard boarding officer. Regulates the hours of drawbridge operation of the Woodrow Wilson Memorial Bridge. Allows the Coast Guard to award to a domestic firm a contract that, under competitive procedures, would have been awarded to a foreign firm if certain conditions are met."