"5/22/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations from Contributions of Foreign Governments and/or Interest for Humanitarian Assistance to Refugees and Displaced Persons In and Around Iraq as a Result of the Recent Invasion of Kuwait and for Peacekeeping Activities and Other Urgent Needs Act of 1991 - Makes emergency supplemental appropriations for FY 1991 to carry out this Act. \n    Chapter\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Defense\n    Military - Makes the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund available for the costs of the Department of Defense incurred in connection with Operation Provide Comfort and other humanitarian efforts for the relief of refugees and displaced persons in and around Iraq. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to transfer a specified amount from the Fund from amounts appropriated for Operation Desert Shield/Operation Desert Storm to military personnel and operation and maintenance accounts for the cost of humanitarian relief efforts. Appropriates a specified amount from the Defense Cooperation Account for contributions to military relief societies. Sets forth general provisions concerning the transfers of funds.  \n    Chapter\n    II\n     - \n    Department of State\n    Provides for the transfer of specified amount of funds from the Defense Cooperation Account to certain Department of State accounts for: (1) emergency assistance for refugees and other displaced persons in and around Iraq and for peacekeeping activities and international disaster assistance (authorizes a specified amount of such funds for the Agency for International Development) in the Persian Gulf region; (2) migration and refugee assistance (authorizes a specified amount of such funds for the Department of State Office of Refugee Programs); and (3) the U.S. Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund. Sets forth general provisions concerning the transfers of funds. Provides that amounts obligated for international disaster assistance in connection with the Persian Gulf crisis for FY 1991 and the value of defense articles and services and military education and training authorized to be drawn down as of April 20, 1991, under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 shall not be counted against ceiling limitations. Prohibits economic support fund assistance allocated for Pakistan under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 from being made available for assistance to another country unless notification is provided to the Committees on Appropriations.  \n    Chapter\n    III\n     - \n    Natural Disasters\n    Requires the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, pending receipt of a budget request, to report to the appropriate congressional committees on unfunded costs of: (1) dire emergencies due to disasters in the United States; and (2) international disaster emergencies and the threats to the oil supply, human health, and the environment resulting from the Kuwaiti oil fires.  \n    Chapter\n    IV\n     - \n    Department of Commerce\n    Earmarks funds appropriated under the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 and the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Consequences of Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, Food Stamps, Unemployment Compensation Administration, Veterans Compensation and Pensions, and Other Urgent Needs Act of 1991 for export promotion programs. Rescinds a specified amount of funds for salaries and expenses of courts of appeals, district courts, and other judicial services made available under the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991. Makes available funds for defender services.  \n    Chapter\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits appropriations contained in this Act from remaining available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly provided. Provides that funds in this Act are off budget. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to accept burdensharing contributions in the form of money from the Republic of Korea for the costs of DOD Korean national employees."