"10/1/1992--House receded and concurred with amendment. Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Transportation\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for: (1) the Office of the Secretary of Transportation; (2) the Coast Guard; (3) the Federal Aviation Administration; (4) the Federal Highway Administration (including specified demonstration projects); (5) the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; (6) the Federal Railroad Administration; (7) the Federal Transit Administration; (8) the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation; (9) the Research and Special Programs Administration; and (10) the Office of the Inspector General.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for: (1) the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board; (2) the National Transportation Safety Board; (3) the Interstate Commerce Commission; (4) the Panama Canal Commission; (5) the Department of the Treasury; and (6) the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth specified prohibitions, limitations, permissions, and mandates with respect to the use of appropriations under this Act. Prohibits the use of funds for the Panama Canal Commission except in comformance with the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977. Prohibits the use of funds for any program to compensate non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings funded in this Act. Prohibits the use of funds for the planning or implementation of any change in the current Federal status of the Volpe National Transportation Systems Center (except for further development planning that does not alter such status) or the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center. Requires the Secretary of Transportation (Secretary) to distribute, on a ratio-formulated basis, Federal-aid highway State obligation limitations for FY 1993 for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction. Prohibits a State from obligating more than 25 percent of its allocation for such projects during the first three months of FY 1993. Sets forth additional specified obligation limits for States during FY 1993. Limits funds available for salaries and expenses to no more than 110 political and Presidential appointees in the Department of Transportation. Prohibits the assignment of such personnel on temporary detail outside of the Department. Prohibits the use of funds for the construction of the Central Automated Transit System (Downtown People Mover) in Detroit, Michigan. Requires the Secretary to obligate no more than $4,000,000 for each year that Interstate 95 is under reconstruction for operating expenses of the Tri-County Commuter Rail Project in Florida. Requires the Secretary to make compensation payments as provided under the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to air carriers that provide essential air service to small community airports. Prohibits the use of funds to establish a vessel traffic safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation Scheme. Authorizes airports to transfer to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) instrument landing systems which were purchased through a Federal airport aid or development program and which conform to FAA performance specifications. Prohibits the use of funds by the FAA for a new National Weather Graphics System. Prohibits the use of funds to award multiyear contracts for production end items that include: (1) economic order quantity or long lead time material procurement in excess of $10,000,000 in any one year of the contract; or (2) a cancellation charge greater than $10,000,000 which at the time of obligation has not been appropriated to the limits of the Government's liability; or (3) a requirement that permits performance under the contract during the second and subsequent years of such contract without conditioning such performance upon the appropriation of funds. Requires the Secretary to withhold five percent of a State's Federal-aid highway apportionment after the second calendar year, and ten percent after the fourth calendar year, following the effective date of this requirement if it does not: (1) enforce laws requiring the revocation, suspension, or delay in the issuance of an individual's driver's license upon conviction of a drug offense; or (2) submit a certification of the Governor's and State legislature's opposition to such enforcement. Prohibits use of funds for executing regulations to add Passenger Facility Charges to the cost of travel benefits known as \"frequent flyer award certificates\" or any other bonus program offerd by an airline. Prohibits the availability of funds under this Act for: (1) any passenger manifest program that only applies to U.S. flag carriers; or (2) any change in the current Federal status of the FAA's flight service stations at Red Bluff Airport, Red Bluff, California, Tri-City Airport, Bristol, Tennessee, and Bert Mooney Airport, Butte, Montana. Authorizes the FAA to enter into grants with the City of Kissimmee, Florida; the Douglas County Port Authority, Washington, and the Jackson-Madison County Airport Authority, Tennessee, to assist in the construction of non-Federal air traffic control towers. Requires the Secretary to make a specified amount available for a transportation resource center at Berry University, Miami Shores, Florida. Authorizes the use of funds under the urban high-density program in Indiana for the reconstruction of an interchange with the Borman Expressway. Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to exempt from certain axle weight limitations for vehicles using the Dwight D. Eisenhower System of Interstate and Defense Highways any vehicle which regularly is used as an interstate public agency transit passenger bus. Requires the Secretary to study and report to the Congress on the maximum axle weight limitations for such vehicles on such highway system. Authorizes the use of funds for the Westside Light Rail Project, Portland, Oregon, for the development and acquisition of low floor light rail vehicles, and the incremental costs associated with the introduction of the vehicles and facilities modifications on the current alignment. Amends Federal law to authorize the Secretary to advance funds to States for acquisition of rights-of-way for future construction of passenger transit facilities. Requires any unspent funds earmarked for the Long Island Expressway Fourth Lane project to be applied instead to the Robert Moses Cavsency rehabilitation project and to the Loop Parkway Bridge rehabilitation project. Authorizes denial or revocation of a trade or recreational endorsement on a certificate of documentation if the vessel's owner has not paid an assessment of a civil penalty after final agency action. Amends the Federal Water Pollution Control Act to require the Secretary of the Treasury, upon request, to refuse or revoke a vessel's clearance or certain permits for vessels owned or operated by a person who is liable for a civil penalty for the disharge of oil or hazardous substance from such vessel. Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to designate as a high priority corridor on the national Highway System the corridor from Indianapolis, Indiana, through Evansville, Indiana, Memphis, Tennessee, Shreveport/Bossier, Louisiana, and to Houston, Texas. Amends the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 to add as one of the functions of the Metropolitan New York Aircraft Noise Mitigation Committee the review of aircraft noise complaints in the airspace over New York and Connecticut lying within a 110-nautical-mile radius of La Guadia Airport, and advise the FAA Administrator with regard to the mitigation of such noise. Amends the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 to require a response plan for tankers loading cargo at a facility to provide for the containment and removal of oil spills in Prince William Sound. American Automobile Labeling Act - Amends the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act to require manufacturers of new automobiles to affix, and each dealer to maintain, in a prominent place, on each automobile manufactured after October 1, 1994, a label indicating: (1) the percentage (by value) of U.S./Canadian automobile equipment on it; (2) the final assembly point by city, State, and county of such automobile; (3) in the case of a country (other than the United States or Canada) in which 15 percent or more (by value) of equipment installed on such automobiles orignated, the names of at least the two countries in which the greatest amount (by value) and the percentage (by value) of the equipment originated; and (4) the country of origin of the engine and the transmission of such automobile. Sets forth civil penalties for violation of this Act. Authorizes the Administrator of the FAA to continue the Collegiate Training Initiative program which prepares students through post-secondary educational institutions for the position of air traffic controller. Treats, for purposes of apportionment of certain funds under the Federal Transit Act for FY 1993, total bus revenue vehicle miles provided by the Duke Power Company as having been provided by the City of Durham, North Carolina. Amends Federal law to authorize States to obligate funds without Department of Transportation limitation for congestion mitigation and air quality improvement programs in areas of the State which are nonattainment for ozone or carbon monoxide, or both, and for PM-10 resulting from transportation activities. Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to require transit improvements in the corridor from the Waldorf area to the Washington, D.C. area be based on the locally preferred alternatives from the Southern Maryland Mass Transportation Alternatives Study of the Tri-County Council for Southern Maryland and other specified improvements.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Highway Technical Corrections\n    Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to make technical changes with respect certain highway construction projects in North Dakota and Kansas. Directs the Secretary to make grants to States for construction of highway timber bridges on public roads (currently, on rural Federal-aid highways). Amends Federal law to require ferry boats and ferry terminal facilities that have been constructed with Federal participation to operate on routes classified as public roads but not designated as routes on the Interstate System. Increases from 1/4 of one percent to 1/2 of one percent the amount of funds apportioned to a State for surface transportation programs and bridge programs that may be available to develop highway construction training and skill improvement program for minority businesses. Requires the Hell Gate Viaduct to be considered a federally-owned bridge for purposes of determining the Federal share of costs to upgrade, repair, and paint it.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Transit Technical Corrections\n    Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to exempt from complying with highway National Environmental Policy Act requirements any transit project that has an approved draft Environmental Impact Statement. Amends the Federal Transit Act to make specified technical changes. Replaces the Southern California Rapid Transit District with the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission as grantee for the Minimum Operable Segment One of the Los Angeles Metro Rail project. Amends the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 to require the Secretary to allocate specified funds for the purchase of rights-of-way for passenger rail service between the existing terminal in San Jose and Gilroy, California.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Alcohol Traffic Safety Grants\n    Amends Federal law to extend from three years to five years any State's eligibility for Federal basic and supplemental grants for drunk driving prevention programs. Sets forth the Federal share of costs for such programs. Adds as a requirement for such basic grants that a State establishes a mandatory sentence, with no chance for suspension or probation, of imprisonment for at least 48 consecutive hours, or at least ten days of community service, for any person convicted of driving while intoxicated more than once in any five-year period. Authorizes appropriations."