"9/9/1992--Passed House amended. Maritime Administration Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 - Authorizes appropriations for the Maritime Administration for: (1) operating-differential subsidies; (2) manpower, education, and training; (3) operating programs; (4) national security support capabilities; (5) administrative costs related to new Federal ship mortgage insurance loan guarantees; (6) costs of such guarantees (authorizing use of a specified amount for methanol plantship loans); and (7) assistance to the Massachusetts Center for Marine Environmental Protection located at the Massachusetts Maritime Academy. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to use proceeds from the sale or disposal of National Defense Reserve Fleet (NDRF) vessels for facility and ship maintenance, modernization and repair, acquisition of equipment, training simulators, and fuel costs necessary to maintain training at the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy and the State maritime academies. Amends the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 to entitle individuals to reemployment rights and other benefits, equivalent to those under specified Federal law for members of an armed forces reserve component ordered to active duty, if the individual meets other requirements and is employed on a vessel used by the United States for a war, armed conflict, national emergency, or maritime mobilization. Amends the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 to restore provisions of Federal law, previously repealed, relating to allowed uses of the NDRF. Authorizes the Secretary to designate National Shipbuilding Enhancement Institutes. Allows an Institute's activities to include such activities as: (1) developing vessel construction and repair technology; (2) enhancing domestic shipyards' international competitiveness; and (3) fostering innovations in the domestic shipbuilding marketing system. Authorizes grants to any designated Institute. Requires a State maritime academy receiving Federal assistance under specified provisions to reimburse individuals, from Federal funds provided for such purposes, for any charge paid by the individual for issuance, evaluation, or examination for an entry level license or merchant mariner's document. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes awards to National Maritime Enhancement Institutes on an equal or partial matching (currently, on an equal matching) basis. Removes a limit on the aggregate annual amount of the Federal share of awards. Increases the amount of incentive payments to students at State maritime academies. Removes certain provisions regulating the times and manner of such payments. Modifies procedures in the event of the failure of certain individuals receiving payments to complete the course of instruction. Repeals provisions, scheduled to go into effect in 1994, requiring State maritime academy students in merchant marine officer preparation programs to pass a licensing examination in order to graduate. Mandates a report to the Congress setting forth the Department of Transportation's policies for the next five years regarding the U.S. maritime industry, the merchant marine, its mariners, and shipbuilding and repair. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a contract for the maintenance of the NDRF, including the Ready Reserve Force (RRF), only for specified services. Directs the Secretary to: (1) compete all deactivations of vessels in the RRF; (2) in each such competition, permit a bid or proposal by any U.S. public or U.S. private shipyard; and (3) award each contract to the lowest qualified bidder. Authorizes issuance of certificates of documentation to 21 specified vessels. Amends Federal law (relating to making surplus U.S. vessels available for use by private nonprofit organizations in providing humanitarian services to peoples of developing countries) to remove from such designation as humanitarian service candidates two other specified vessels. Extends to October 22, 1994, the expiration date of the law being amended. Authorizes conveyance, without consideration, of two specified vessels to Assistance International, Inc., for use in emergencies, vocational training, and economic development programs. Authorizes conveyance to the city of Warsaw, Kentucky, without consideration, for use by the city for economic development and tourism, of a vessel that is in the NDRF and scheduled to be scrapped. Directs the Secretary of the Navy to transfer two specified vessels to the Department of Transportation, to be assigned as training ships to specified educational institutions in Texas and Maine. Authorizes conveyance to the National Maritime Museum Association, without consideration, of a vessel that is in the NDRF, is scheduled to be scrapped, and meets other requirements, to be sold for scrap, with the proceeds used for the preservation and restoration of the historic fleet of the San Francisco Maritime National Historical Park in California. Amends the Merchant Marine Act, 1936 to increase the cap on the portion of mortgage obligations arising from statutorily mandated changes in standards for the operation of vessels which may be guaranteed. Authorizes issuance of a certificate of documentation for six specified vessels, limiting one of them to oil spill cleanup and support activities. Authorizes sale to a non-U.S. citizen and transfer to a foreign registry of three specified vessels. Authorizes conveyance, without consideration, of two vessels in the NDRF, scheduled to be scrapped, and meeting certain requirements, the vessels to be sold for scrap and the proceeds used for refurbishing and making seaworthy a Liberty Ship or Victory Ship as a memorial to merchant mariners to enable the ship to participate in activities commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Normandy invasion. Prohibits any funds appropriated under this Act and its amendments from being expended by an entity unless the entity agrees to comply with certain provisions of the Buy American Act. Sets forth the sense of the Congress that entities receiving financial assistance under this Act in connection with the purchase of any equipment or product should, in expending the assistance, purchase only American-made equipment and products. Mandates notice to each such recipient of that sense of the Congress."