"9/28/1992--Conference report filed in House. Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Justice and Related Agencies\n    Department of Justice and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes FY 1993 appropriations to the Department of Justice for: (1) Office of Justice programs; (2) general administration, including the Office of Inspector General, the Quantico Training Center, the Executive Office for Weed and Seed; (3) the United States Parole Commission; (4) legal activities; (5) radiation exposure compensation; (6) interagency law enforcement; (7) the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI); (8) the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA); (9) the Immigration and Naturalization Service; (10) the Commission on Immigration Reform; (11) the Thomas Jefferson Commemoration Commission; and (12) the Federal Prison System. Authorizes the Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated, to make expenditures within the limits of funds and borrowing authority available to carry out its program. Limits the administrative expenses of such corporation. Continues certain authorities for FBI and DEA undercover investigative operations. Prohibits the use of funds to pay for an abortion, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in the case of rape. Prohibits the use of funds to require any person to perform, or facilitate the performance of, any abortion. Prohibits the payment of a fact-witness fee to a person who is incarcerated. Requires the Attorney General to report to the Congress on a study of the effect of amending the Financial Right to Privacy Act to allow nondepository licensed transmitters of duns to be reimbursed to the same extent as financial institutions under that Act. Directs the Attorney General, acting through the Director of the National Institute of Justice, to: (1) evaluate existing and proposed anti-stalking legislation in the States; (2) develop model anti-stalking legislation that is constitutional and enforceable; (3) prepare and disseminate findings to State authorities; and (4) report findings to the Congress and the need or appropriateness of further action by the Federal Government by September 30, 1993. Provides for the transfer of funds among Department of Justice appropriations. Requires the Attorney General to collect fees (up to the cost of one year of incarceration) to cover the cost of confinement from persons committed to his custody upon conviction in the U.S. District Courts. Establishes the Diversion Control Fee Account for the operation of the Drug Enforcement Administration's diversion control program. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 to establish a separate account to be known as the Breached Bond/Detention Fund to refund expenses incurred in the collection of breached bonds and for expenses associated with the detention of illegal aliens. Provides funding for such account. Provides for the processing of applications for naturalization, including the necessary interviews, and oaths of allegiance to be conducted in the Philippines by employees of Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS). Amends Federal law to allow, for FY 1993 only, the transfer of surplus Assets Forfeiture Funds to the appropriations for the Support of U.S. prisoners and U.S. attorneys. Allows funds from such Fund to be used under authorities available to the organizations receiving them. Directs the General Accounting Office to report to the Congress on their explanation for failing to comply with reporting requirements on the semi-annual financial reviews of the Independent Counsel. Makes appropriations for the following related agencies for FY 1993: (1) the Commission on Civil Rights; (2) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; (3) the Federal Communications Commission; (4) the Federal Maritime Commission; (5) the Federal Trade Commission; (6) the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (7) the State Justice Institute.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Commerce\n    Department of Commerce Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes FY 1993 appropriations to the Department of Commerce for: (1) the National Institute of Standards and Technology; (2) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (3) general administration, including the Office of Inspector General; (4) the Bureau of the Census; (5) economic and statistical analysis; (6) the International Trade Administration; (7) export administration; (8) the Minority Business Development Agency; (9) the United States Travel and Tourism Administration; (10) the Patent and Trademark Office; (11) the Technology Administration; (12) the establishment of a National Technical Information Service Revolving Fund; (13) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration; and (14) the Economic Development Administration. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that are under the control of the United States Air Force or the United States Air Force Reserve. Prohibits the use of funds to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other account of the Treasury to pay unemployment compensation for temporary census workers for services performed after April 20, 1990. Provides for the transfer of funds among Department of Commerce appropriations.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    The Judiciary\n    Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1993 - Appropriates FY 1993 funds for activities of the Judiciary, including: (1) the Supreme Court; (2) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; (3) the U.S. Court of International Trade; (4) the Court of Appeals, district courts, and judicial services; (5) the Administrative Office of the United States Courts; (6) the Federal Judicial Center; (7) the National Commission on Judicial Discipline and Removal; and (8) the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Makes funds available for the Temporary Emergency Court of Appeals and the Special Court established under the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973. Provides for the transfer of funds among Judiciary appropriations. Authorizes U.S. justices and judges to receive a salary adjustment in FY 1993.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates FY 1993 funds for: (1) the Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation; (2) the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission; (3) the Commission on Agricultural Workers; (4) the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; (5) the Competitiveness Policy Council; (6) the Marine Mammal Commission; (7) the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission; (8) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; (9) the Legal Services Corporation; and (10) the Small Business Administration (SBA). Prohibits the use of funds by the SBA to guarantee certain participating securities until legislation has been enacted which directly or indirectly prohibits the filing of a petition under the Bankruptcy Code by certain licensed small business investment companies.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Department of State and Related Agencies\n    Department of State and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - Appropriates FY 1993 funds for: (1) the Department of State for the administration of foreign affairs; (2) the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; (3) the Board for International Broadcasting; (4) the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; (5) the International Trade Commission; (6) the Japan-United States Friendship Commission; (7) the United States Information Agency (USIA); (8) the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowship Program; and (9) the Israeli Arab Scholarship Program. Provides for the transfer of funds among Department of State appropriations. Prohibits the use of funds for contracts with any foreign or U.S. firm that complies with the Arab League Boycott of the State of Israel or with any foreign or U.S. firm that discriminates in the award of subcontracts on the basis of religion. Amends the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 to repeal provisions regarding U.S.-Soviet reciprocity concerning occupancy of the new Soviet chancery building in the District of Columbia. Provides for the USIA to establish a technical assistance center for Russia at an American university, in a region which receives non-stop air service to and from the Russian Far East, to facilitate business opportunities, free markets, and democratic institutions in the Russian Far East.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth limitations and prohibitions on the use of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1993 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Expresses the sense of the Congress that entities purchasing goods or services with funds under this Act should, to the maximum extent feasible where available, purchase only American-made equipment, products, and services. Prohibits the use of funds for the construction, repair (other than emergency repair), overhaul, conversion, or modernization of vessels for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in shipyards located outside the United States. Applies the bribery statute to the United States Trade Representative for the three years after termination of such service. Establishes a pilot immigration program involving a regional center in the United States for the promotion of economic growth. Provides for the distribution of grant funds made available to the Legal Services Corporation."