"10/17/1991--Conference report filed in House. Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of the Interior\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1992 within the Department of the Interior for: (1) the Bureau of Land Management; (2) the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; (3) the National Park Service; (4) the Geological Survey; (5) the Minerals Management Service; (6) the Bureau of Mines; (7) the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement; (8) the Bureau of Indian Affairs; (9) the Office of Territorial and International Affairs; and (10) Departmental offices, including the Office of the Secretary, the Office of the Solicitor, the Office of Construction Management, the Office of the Inspector General, and the National Indian Gaming Commission. Prohibits the issuance of land patents for certain oil shale mining claims before October 1, 1992. Requires the designation of funds needed for emergency firefighting above a specified amount as emergency requirements pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act). Prohibits the use of funds to reintroduce wolves in Yellowstone National Park and Central Idaho. Authorizes the issuance of procurements for the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Maryland, the National Education and Training Center, and the replacement laboratory for the National Fisheries Research Center, Seattle, Washington. Requires the solicitation and contract to contain the clause \"availability of funds.\" Makes funds available to carry out the North American Wetlands Conservation Act, including fines paid by Exxon and Exxon Shipping Company as a result of the Exxon Valdez spill in Prince William Sound, Alaska. Authorizes the Fish and Wildlife Service to negotiate and enter into cooperative arrangements and grants with public and private agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals to implement on a public-private cost sharing basis the North American Wetlands Conservation Act and the North American Waterfowl Management Plan. Allows the National Park Service to maintain or improve certain roads within New River Gorge NR, West Virginia and Cuyahoga Valley NRA, Ohio. Prohibits the National Park Service from using funds to construct horse stables or any other facilities for the housing of horses at the Manassas National Battlefield Park, Virginia. Makes funds available for the Susan LaFlesche Picotte Center (to commemorate the life and works of the first female Native American doctor). Prohibits the use of funds to implement any increase in Government housing rental rates in excess of ten eprcent more than the rental rates which were in effect on September 1, 1991. Makes funds available to the City of Hot Springs, Arkansas, as part of the non-Federal share of a feasibility study of food protection for the downtown area which contains a significant amount of National Park Service property and improvements. Specifies the use of construction funds made available to the National Park Service. Prohibits the National Park Service from using funds appropriated for construction for the Steamtown National Historic Site in Pennsylvania unless specifically authorized. Allows acquisition of property of condemnation at Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area under specified conditions. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to enter into a cooperative agreement with the William O. Douglas Outdoor Classroom under which the Secretary may expend Federal funds on non-Federal property for environmental education purposes. Directs the Superintendent of the Olympic National Park, Washington, to issue a ten-year, special use permit for the continued operation of Kamp Kiwanis by the Hoquiam Kiwanis Club and the Hoquiam YMCA at a specified location within the Park. Designates the Geological Survey as the United States Geological Survey. Provides for financing the onshore mineral royalty collection program through the next receipts concept. Provides for cooperative audits to be conducted by States and Indian tribes for coal, geothermal and other Federal lease royalties. Makes appropriations to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement available to fund the full costs to the States to implement the Applicant Violator System in compliance with a specified agreement between Save Our Cumberland Mountains, Inc. and the Secretary of the Interior. Authorizes the Department to utilize a percentage of delinquent debt recoveries to pay for contracts to collect delinquent debt. Limits the administrative costs of the rural abandoned mine program. Authorizes the Secretary to deny 50 percent of an Abandoned Mine Reclamation Fund grant when it is determined that a State is failing to adequately enforce its approved State regulatory program. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated for the benefit of Indians residing within the jurisdictional service area of the Cherokee Nation of Oklahoma from being expended by other than the Cherokee Nation. Prohibits the use of funds to take land into trust within the boundaries of the original Cherokee territory in Oklahoma without the consent of the Cherokee Nation. Requires the use of funds under this Act to continue the activities of the Task Force on Bureau of Indian Affairs Reorganization under its charter as adopted and amended on April 17, 1991. Prohibits any reorganization proposal from being implemented until the Task Force has reviewed and recommended its implementation to the Secretary and such proposal has been reported to the congressional Committees on Appropriations. Allows the Bureau to submit a reorganization proposal related only to management improvements, along with Task Force comments or recommendations to such Committees for review and disposition. Makes funds available to lease space in a facility to be constructed by the Nez Perce Tribe in Idaho, subject to a GSA market survey findings. Provides funds to the Blackfeet Tribe for a model trust department pilot program. Requires that amounts collected in connection with the Alaska Resupply Program be deposited into a special fund to be established in the Treasury to carry out the provisions of such Program. Transfers to such account the offsetting collections of the Operation of Indian Programs collected in FY 1991. Makes an ex gratia contribution to a Rongelap Resettlement Trust Fund for the relocation and resettlement of the people of Rongelap on Rongelap Atoll in the Marshall Islands. Provides for the operation of such trust fund. Authorizes the use of appropriations for the emergency reconstruction, replacement, or repair of facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes. Designates such funds as emergency requirements pursuant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act). Allows the Secretary of the Interior to authorize the expenditure or transfer of any no year appropriations, in addition to the amounts included in the budget programs of agencies, for: (1) the suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or threatening land under the jurisdiction of the Department; (2) emergency actions related to earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; (3) activities related to oilspills; (4) grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks; (5) emergency reclamation projects; and (6) the assumption of regulatory authority where necessary. Prohibits the use of funds for the conduct of leasing or related activities on areas within the Eastern Gulf of Mexico, Central, Southern, and Northern California and the North Atlantic. Prohibits the use of funds for the leasing or drilling or other exploration activity on lands within the North Aleutian Basin planning area. Prohibits the use of funds for preleasing and leasing activities for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 137 or 151 in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. Prohibits the use of funds for the preparation for, or conduct of, pre-leasing and leasing activities of lands within a certain area of the Outer Continental Shelf off the coastline of Rhode Island south into Florida. Prohibits the use of funds for the financing of agreements or arrangements for the management of lands, waters, and interests on Matagorda Island, Texas, which were purchased with amounts from the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Authorizes the use of appropriations to provide nonmonetary awards of nominal value to private individuals and organizations that make contributions to Department programs. Authorizes the use of funds to pay costs incidental to the use of services contributed by volunteers for the Department. Amends Federal law to provide authority for disbursing interest income from the San Luis Rey Tribal Development Fund. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to approve the extension of the Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor Commission whose purpose is to assist Federal, State and local authorities in the development and implementation of an integrated resource management plan within the Blackstone River Valley in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. Prohibits funds in the Energy and Water Appropriations Act from being used to implement an Army Corps of Engineers proposed rule on ability to pay. Amends the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 to make technical corrections concerning congressional intent.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1992 to the Department of Agriculture for the Forest Service. Makes funds available to: (1) Mercer County, West Virginia, for the construction and equipping of a hardwood training and a flexible manufacturing center; (2) Berkeley County, South Carolina, to assist in a transition due to reduce timber receipt payments as a result of timber blowdown during Hurricane Hugo; and (3) the Forest Legacy Program. Prohibits the Forest Service from entering into any commitment to fund the purchase of interests in lands which would exceed the level of appropriations provided by this title. Requires the merger of FY 1991 unobligated and unexpended balances in the National Forest System account with the FY 1992 appropriation. Authorizes the sale of FY 1991 unsold timber volume during FY 1992 and authorizes a cooperative agreement with Alabama A&amp;M University to the extent of available funds. Authorizes the use of funds for road maintenance for the obliteration of roads which are no longer needed. Directs the Forest Service to make a grant to the City of Missoula, Montana, from funds appropriated by Public Law 101-512 for direct acquisition of property known as Rattlesnake Greenway (and currently under option) to the City. Prohibits the use of funds to purchase Special Improvement District permits. Requires the use of remaining funds to acquire additional properties for recreation and open space in the same vicinity. Provides for the use of timber salvage sales and for the sale of new timber volumes. Prohibits the use of funds for timber sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 percent of the FY 1989 harvested volume in the Wayne National Forest, Ohio. Excepts such limitation for hardwood stands damaged by natural disaster. Allows the use of landscape architects to maintain a visually pleasing forest. Makes funds available to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and representation expenses. Prohibits the use of funds to administer a special use authorization on Rock Creek, Madera County, California, until an environmental study has been completed and a finding made that there will be no adverse impact on the environment. Authorizes the Kaibab and Dixie National Forests, as a pilot effort to achieve ecologically defensible management practices, to apply the value of timber removed under a stewardship end result contract as an offset against the cost of various stewardship services. Directs the Forest Service to conduct a below-cost timber sales study on the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois, in FY 1992. Directs the Forest Service to work with the purchasers of sales already under contract on the Shawnee National Forest to achieve mutually acceptable modifications to such contracts so that the harvest of timber may occur consistent with the expected management prescriptions and/or practices envisioned in the Draft Amendment to the Forest Plan for the Shawnee National Forest issued in 1991. Prohibits, pending final approval of such Plan, the use of funds for preparation of timber sales using clearcutting or other forms of even aged management in hardwood standards in the Shawnee National Forest. Makes appropriations for the Department of Energy for, among other things, clean coal technology, fossil energy research and development, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and the SPR Account. Directs the Secretary of Energy to reobligate funds to a proposal ranked highest in its specific technology category by the Source Evaluation Board if other than the highest ranking project in that category was selected originally by the Secretary, and if such funds become unobligated and are sufficient to fund such project. Makes funds available for the purchase of supercomputer time needed for Fossil Energy programmatic purposes as a grant to the University of Nevada-Las Vegas. Requires disbursements from such grant to be made only upon the actual use of such supercomputer time upon request of and receipt by Fossil Energy the products. Makes funds available for a grant for the National Research Center for Coal and Energy and for a matching grant for the University of North Dakota Energy and Environmental Research Center. Makes funds available for a grant to the National Center for Alternate Transportation Fuels and to continue funding the development of an Integrated Management Information System for the steel industry. Prohibits the use of funds made available as a result of any test drawdown or drawdown and distribution of the SPR from being used in FY 1992 for the leasing, exchanging, or otherwise acquiring except by direct purchase of crude oil from a foreign government, a foreign State-owned oil company, or an agent of either. Authorizes the Secretary to negotiate contracts pursuant to the Energy Policy and Conservation Act. Repeals the mandatory approval process contained in the FY 1991 Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act. Makes appropriations to the Department of Health and Human Services for the Indian Health Service for Indian health services and facilities. Requires the Indian Health Service to make quarterly reports to the congressional Committees on Appropriations on any proposed adjustments to existing leases involving additional space or proposed additional leases for permanent structures to be used in the delivery of Indian health care services. Appropriates funds to: (1) the Department of Education for the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education for Indian education; (2) the Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation; (3) the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development; (4) the Smithsonian Institution; (5) construction and improvements at the National Zoological Park; (6) restoration and repair of buildings owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution; (7) the National Gallery of Art (NGA); (8) repair, restoration, and renovation of buildings of the NGA; and (9) the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Makes appropriations for: (1) the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities; (2) the Institute of Museum Services; (3) the Commission of Fine Arts; (4) National Capital arts and cultural affairs; (5) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; (6) the National Capital Planning Commission; (7) the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission; (8) the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation; and (9) the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. Sets forth uses and prohibitions on uses of such funds. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated for the acquisition of land at the Smithsonian Environmental Research Center or for the construction of the East Court Building project, National Museum of Natural History, until authorizing legislation is enacted.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth uses and limitations or prohibitions on uses of funds appropriated by this Act. Prohibits the Secretaries of the Interior and of Agriculture from using such funds for leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive bidding on public lands within the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois. Prohibits the use of funds in this Act to evaluate, consider, process, or award oil, gas, or geothermal leases on Federal lands in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, State of Washington. Prohibits the use of funds for deer hunting in the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. Prohibits the use of funds in this Act for the sale of timber from giant sequoia trees which are located on National Forest System or Bureau of Land Management lands. Prohibits the use of funds by the Department of the Interior or the Forest Service to make reimbursements to other Federal departments for litigation costs associated with the Prince William Sound oilspill. Prohibits the use of funds by the Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management to increase fees charged for communication site use of lands by more than a specified percentage. Prohibits the use of funds to ensure that hardwood saw timber harvested from Federal lands east of the 100th meridian is marked in a manner to make it readily identifiable at all times before its manufacture. Specifies required percentage payments to be made by the U.S. Government: (1) to the Oregon and California land-grant counties in the State of Oregon for their share of land-grant receipts collected during the baseline period of FY 1986 through 1990; and (2) to States affected by decisions relating to the Northern Spotted Owl from FY 1991 receipts collected during such period. Requires a 1.411 percent reduction to all accounts in this Act with the eception of payments required by law, payments to certain Indian groups, and certain small independent agencies. Directs the Secretary of the Air Force to transfer to the Department of the Interior certain property located west of McIntyre Road at the site of former Pease Air Force Base, New Hampshire, for use as a National Wildlife Refuge. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey a specified portion of such property to New Hampshire for use as a cemetery for veterans. Amends Federal law to release acreage in the Campbell Tract in Anchorage, Alaska, from the restrictions of a bicentennial park master development plan."