"6/29/1992--Passed House amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    National Undersea Research Program\n    National Undersea Research Program Act of 1992 - Designates as undersea regions ten specified areas, plus any region resulting from an establishment, modification, or merger under specified provisions of this Act. Establishes in the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) the National Undersea Research Program to enhance scientific understanding of processes in the oceans and large lakes of the world through research and through developing and applying research technology. Establishes in NOAA the Office of Undersea Research to conduct the Program. Mandates appointment of a science advisor to the Program's Director. Establishes the National Undersea Research Steering Committee to advise the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere and the Director. Requires assignment of one or more undersea research regions to each National Undersea Research Center in existence at the time of enactment of this Act. Regulates establishment and merger of Centers. Mandates review of Centers and regions every five years. Requires, if continued operation of a Center is not warranted, establishment of a new Center for the same region. Provides for Center research programs, including annual solicitation of individual research proposals. Authorizes use of amounts appropriated to carry out the Program to make grants and contracts to fund any Center program, subject to terms and conditions. Exempts grants and contracts under the Program from review by the Financial Assistance Review Board. Authorizes appropriations to carry out this Act and specified provisions of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act relating to the study of underwater diving techniques and equipment.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Miscellaneous\n    Directs the Under Secretary to establish a Center for the Great Lakes region. Directs the Under Secretary, jointly with the Director of the National Science Foundation and the Secretary of the Navy, to develop procedures for joint review of research proposals. Requires compliance, in spending funds under this Act, with specified provisions of the Buy American Act. Declares the sense of the Congress that only American-made equipment and products should be purchased with assistance provided under this Act."