"10/3/1992--House receded and concurred with amendment. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Labor\n    Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following agencies within the Department of Labor: (1) Employment and Training Administration; (2) Labor-Management Standards; (3) Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration; (4) Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; (5) Employment Standards Administration; (6) Occupational Safety and Health Administration; (7) Mine Safety and Health Administration; (8) Bureau of Labor Statistics; and (9) Departmental Management. Prohibits the use of funds to grant variances, interim orders, or letters of clarification to employers which will allow exposure of workers to chemicals or other workplace hazards in excess of existing Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards for the purpose of conducting experiments on workers' health and safety. Prohibits the use of funds to contract with a non-governmental entity to administer or manage a Civilian Conservation Center of the Job Corps. Prohibits the use of funds by the Job Corps program to pay the expenses of legal counsel or representation in any criminal case or proceeding for a Job Corps participant, unless certified to and approved by the Secretary of Labor that a public defender is not available. Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to accept, employ, or dispose of gifts on behalf of the Department.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Health and Human Services\n    Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS): (1) Health Resources and Services Administration; (2) Centers for Disease Control; (3) National Institutes of Health; (4) Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; (5) Assistant Secretary for Health; (6) Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; (7) Health Care Financing Administration; (8) Social Security Administration; (9) Administration for Children and Families; (10) Administration on Aging; and (11) Office of the Secretary. Prohibits the use of funds to perform abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. Prohibits the use of funds to provide special retention pay (bonuses) to any regular or reserve medical officer of the Public Health Service for any period during which the officer is assigned to the clinical, research, or staff associate program administered by the National Institutes of Health or the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. Allows one-year contracts to be performed in two fiscal years as long as the amount for such contracts are obligated in the year for which the funds are appropriated. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make available through assignment not more than 60 employees of the Public Health service to assist in child survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds provided by the Agency for International Development, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, or the World Health Organization. Allows the use of funds for the purchase of dedicated telephone service between the private residences of employees assigned to computer centers and the Federal computer centers. Prohibits the use of funds to pay for any experiment, or other activity that presents a danger to the physical, mental, or emotional well-being of a human participant or subject without the written, informed consent of the participant or subject (or their parents or legal guardian, if they are under 18 years old). Prohibits any of the funds appropriated in this title for the National Institutes of Health and the Substance Abuse, and Mental Health Services Administration from being used to pay the salary of an individual, through a grant or extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of $125,000 per year. Prohibits the use of funds by the National Institute of Health, or any other Federal agency, or recipient of Federal funds on any project that entails the capture or procurement of chimpanzees obtained from the wild. Authorizes the Secretary, when providing services or conducting activities for a State with respect to such program for which the Secretary is entitled to reimbursement by the State, to obtain such reimbursement as an offset against Federal payments to which the State would otherwise be entitled under such program from funds appropriated for the same or any subsequent fiscal year. Limits the amount to be obligated for contracts with Utilization and Quality Control Peer Review Organizations. Prohibits the use of funds to implement the model comprehensive program for the treatment of substance abuse in the national capital area. Reduces funds appropriated to HHS, excluding the Office of Inspector General, by $110,000,000. Requires the FY 1994 budget justification material to specify amounts budgeted for certain administrative costs by appropriation account and by organizational entity, with comparisons to FY 1993 comparable amounts.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Department of Education\n    Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1993 - Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following purposes and agencies within the Department of Education: (1) compensatory education for the disadvantaged; (2) impact aid; (3) school improvement programs; (4) bilingual and immigrant education; (5) educational excellence; (6) rehabilitation services and disability research (including the Helen Keller National Center); (7) special institutions for the persons with disabilities (including the American Printing House for the Blind, the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University); (8) vocational and adult education; (9) student financial assistance; (10) guaranteed student loans (liquidation of contract authority); (11) higher education; (12) Howard University; (13) higher education facilities loans; (14) college housing and academic facilities loans; (15) college housing loans; (16) education research, statistics, and improvement; (17) libraries; (18) departmental management; and (19) special education. Sets forth general provisions relating to auditing of certain institutions and to prohibitions on use of funds for certain forms of busing, other transportation, or transfers of students for purposes of desegregation. Prohibits the use of funds to prevent the implementing of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in the public schools. Makes funds currently available for a National Council on Educational Goals, or any similar entity, available, if authorized in law, through FY 1993 for operation of the currently existing National Education Goals Panel. Declares that current restrictions concerning Panel composition, appointment, and voting procedures shall not apply. Amends the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 to provide that changes in annual loan limits under the Perkins loan program do not apply to any loan made for the award year beginning July 1, 1992, if the loan does not result in a violation of such limits. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to revise the definition of an institution of higher education to include an institution that has been granted preaccreditation standards within a reasonable period of time.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the following agencies: (1) ACTION; (2) Corporation for Public Broadcasting; (3) Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; (4) Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission; (5) National Commission on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; (6) National Commission on Libraries and Information Science; (7) White House Conference on Library and Information Services; (8) National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality; (9) National Council on Disability; (10) National Labor Relations Board; (11) National Mediation Board; (12) Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; (13) Physician Payment Review Commission; (14) Prospective Payment Assessment Commission; (15) Railroad Retirement Board; (16) Soldiers' and Airmen's Home; (17) United States Institute of Peace; (18) United States Naval Home; and (19) the National Commission on Responsibilities for Financing Postsecondary Education.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits the use of funds to pay student assistance or any remuneration to an applicant for admission, student, teacher, or other employee of an institution of higher education if such individual has engaged in conduct on or after August 1, 1969, which involves the use of force (or assistance to others in such use) or the threat of force or the seizure of a property under the control of an institution of higher education, to require or prevent the availability of certain curricula, or to prevent such institution's facility, administrative officials, or students from engaging in their duties or pursuing their studies. Reduces funds under this Act which are not mandated by law for programs, projects, or activities. Requires, beginning in FY 1994 and each fiscal year thereafter, the Office of Management and Budget to establish funding for consulting services for each department and agency as a separate line item in budget requests. Limits FY 1993 funds for consulting services to 92 percent of the amount estimated to be obligated or expended. Prohibits the use of funds to carry out any program of distributing sterile needles for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug unless the Surgeon General of the United States determines that such programs are effective in preventing the spread of HIV and do not encourage the use of illegal drugs. Allows the use of such funds for furtherance of demonstrations or studies authorized in the ADAMHA Reorganization Act (Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration Reorganization Act). Makes funds appropriated for the National Commission on Children available until expended."