"11/21/1991--Introduced. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Labor\n    Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 1992 - Makes appropriations for FY 1992 for the following agencies within the Department of Labor: (1) Employment and Training Administration; (2) Labor-Management Services; (3) Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation; (4) Employment Standards Administration; (5) Occupational Safety and Health Administration; (6) Mine Safety and Health Administration; (7) Bureau of Labor Statistics; and (8) departmental management. Prohibits the use of funds to grant variances, interim orders, or letters of clarification to employers which will allow exposure of workers to chemicals or other workplace hazards in excess of existing Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards for the purpose of conducting experiments on workers' health and safety. Directs the Secretary of Labor, acting under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, to promulgate a final occupational health standard concerning occupational exposure to bloodborne pathogens. Requires the final standard to be based on the proposed standard concerning occupational exposures to the hepatitis B virus, the human immunodeficiency virus and other bloodborne pathogens.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Health and Human Services\n    Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 1992 - Makes appropriations for FY 1992 for the following agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services: (1) Health Resources and Services Administration; (2) Centers for Disease Control; (3) National Institutes of Health; (4) Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration; (5) Assistant Secretary for Health; (6) Agency for Health Care Policy and Research; (7) Health Care Financing Administration; (8) Social Security Administration; (9) Administration for Children and Families; (10) Human Development Services; and (11) Office of the Secretary. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make available through assignment not more than 60 employees of the Public Health Service to assist in child survival activities and to work in AIDS programs through and with funds provided by the Agency for International Development, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, or the World Health Organization. Prohibits the use of funds to pay for any experiment, or other activity that presents a danger to the physical, mental, or emotional well-being of a human participant or subject without written, informed consent of the participant or subject (or their parents or legal guardian, if they are under 18 years old). Prohibits any of the funds appropriated in this title for the National Institutes of Health and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration from being used to pay the salary of an individual, through a grant or extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of $125,000 per year. Prohibits the use of funds by the National Institutes of Health, or any other Federal agency, or recipient of Federal funds on any project that entails the capture or procurement of chimpanzees obtained from the wild. Makes funds available to the Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health (NIH) for extramural facilities construction grants if awarded competitively. Authorizes the Director to make available one percent of all NIH appropriations to high-priority activities. Prohibits such appropriations from being increased or decreased by more than the one percent by such transfers. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine quarterly the extent to which contingency funds may be necessary for management of certain social security hospital and medical insurance trust funds. Prohibits the use of funds to perform abortions except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. Reduces travel expenses for the Department and requires reduction for travel costs to be from amounts set forth in budget estimates submitted for appropriations. Permits the Director of NIH to transfer a portion of funds which become available on September 30, 1992, to other Institutes for cancer research if deemed appropriate. Directs the National Cancer Institute to establish a Matsunaga-Conte Prostate Cancer Research Center with funds provided under this Act. Prohibits the use of funds to conduct the SHARP survey of adult sexual behavior and the American Teenage Survey of adolescent sexual behavior. Provides additional funding for the National Institute on Aging. Permits the Director of NIH to transfer a portion of such funds as deemed appropriate to other Institutes for research directly related to Alzhelimer's disease. Makes funds available for information resource management. Reduces funds appropriated for the Office of Inspector General. Extends the moratorium against foster care cuts resulting from Federal compliance rules. Amends the Public Health Service Act to increase the number of board members of the National Foundation for Biomedical Research.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Department of Education\n    Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1992 - Makes appropriations for FY 1992 for the following purposes and agencies within the Department of Education: (1) compensatory education for the disadvantaged; (2) impact aid; (3) school improvement programs; (4) bilingual and immigrant education; (5) educational excellence; (6) rehabilitation services and handicapped disability research including the Helen Keller National Center); (7) special institutions for persons with disabilities including the American Printing House for the Blind, the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University; (8) vocational and adult education; (9) student financial assistance; (10) guaranteed student loans (liquidation of contract authority); (11) higher education; (12) Howard University; (13) higher education facilities loans; (14) college housing and academic facilities loans; (15) education research, statistics, and improvement; (16) libraries; (17) departmental management; and (18) special education. Sets forth general provisions relating to auditing of certain institutions and to prohibitions on use of funds for certain forms of busing, other transportation, or transfers of students for purposes of desegregation. Prohibits the use of funds to prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in the public schools. Makes funds available for civic education programs and emergency grants. Provides for the transfer of educational excellence funds to the Community and Migrant Health Centers program, Comprehensive Child Development Centers, and new America 2000 educational excellence activities, if enacted into law. Provides that the deadline for enacting new authorization for the America 2000 initiatives may be delayed until April 1, 1992, if it is determined that sufficient progress is being made towards final approval of such legislation, except that this delay does not apply to programs administered by Department of Health and Human Services. Makes funds available for tribally controlled postsecondary vocational institutions. Makes funds available for the college housing and academic facilities loans program. Makes funds available the National Clearinghouse for Science and Mathematics, regional consortia, star schools, and territorial teacher training. Makes funds available for a biotechnology information education demonstration project under the Higher Education Act. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to authorize the Commission on Responsibility for Financing Post-Secondary Education to accept, use, and dispose of money, gifts or donations of services or property.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the following agencies: (1) ACTION; (2) Corporation for Public Broadcasting; (3) Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; (4) Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission; (5) National Commission on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; (6) National Commission on Libraries and Information Science; (7) National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality; (8) National Council on Disability; (9) National Labor Relations Board; (10) National Mediation Board; (11) Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; (12) Physician Payment Review Commission; (13) Prospective Payment Assessment Commission; (14) Railroad Retirement Board; (15) United States Institute of Peace; (16) Soldiers' and Airmen's Home; (17) United States Naval Home; and (18) the National Commission on Children.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohbits the use of funds to pay student assistance or any remuneration to an applicant for admission, student, teacher, or other employee of an institution of higher education if such individual has engaged in conduct on or after August 1, 1969, which involves the use of force (or assistance to others in such use) or the threat of force or the seizure of a property under the control of an institution of higher education, to require or prevent the availability of certain curricula, or to prevent such institution's faculty, administrative officials, or students from engaging in their duties or pursuing their studies. Requires that sums necessary for FY 1992 pay raises for programs funded by this Act be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Reduces funds appropriated under this Act for salaries and expenses, including certain travel costs. Appropriates additional funds for the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission and the Federal Mines Safety and Health Review Commission for salaries and expenses. Delays the obligations of funds under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act until September 30, 1992."