"4/1/1992--Passed Senate amended. Amends Federal law making further continuing appropriations to extend until September 30, 1992 (currently, March 31, 1992) the availability of funds for the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1992 (the Act). Declares that the current rate for operations for any project or activity under this joint resolution for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs shall be defined to be the amounts appropriated in FY 1991. Declares the rate for specified foreign operation expenses to be the amount included under the Act as passed by the House of Representatives on June 19, 1991. Specifies that rate for operations for certain other expenses. Eliminates specified earmarks, transfers, and ceilings under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991. Eliminates dire emergency supplemental earmarks, transfers, ceilings, and other terms and conditions under certain laws applicable to appropriations for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs. Specifies the applicability or inapplicability of certain authorities and conditions to specified continuing appropriations. Makes funds available for support for the economic and democratic development of the former Soviet Republics. Restricts the use of funds made available for military assistance to El Salvador for nonlethal military assistance only. Requires the transfer of funds to the Demobilization and Transition Fund (created to assist with the costs of monitoring a permanent settlement of the conflict in El Salvador). Specifies the further use of such funds, including law enforcement purposes. Makes funds available to support El Salvador's Truth Commission and its investigations and publicization through reports of its findings and recommendations of unsolved human rights cases. Directs the Secretary of State to transmit Commission reports to the appropriate congressional committees in a timely manner. Allows commitments to guarantee loans for foreign operations, export financing, and related programs under the Housing Guarantee Program Account. Continues the administration of justice program (for anti-narcotics efforts) under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 from funds appropriated under this resolution. Makes funds available for law enforcement in Panama, Bolivia, Colombia, and Peru. Amends the International Finance Corporation Act to authorize appropriations for the U.S. Governor of the International Finance Corporation to subscribe to additional shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Amends the Asian Development Bank Act to authorize appropriations for the U.S. Governor of the Asian Development Bank to subscribe to additional shares of the Bank's capital stock. Amends the African Development Fund Act to authorize appropriations for the U.S. Governor of the Fund to contribute to the sixth replenishment of Fund resources. Reduces each discretionary appropriation provided in this joint resolution for foreign operations, export financing and related programs by a specified percentage. Appropriates additional funds (exempt from such reduction in appropriations) to the Department of State for FY 1992 for contributions for international peacekeeping activities. Appropriates additional funds to the Small Business Administration for the cost of direct loans and administrative expenses to carry out the disaster loan program. Declares that the Congress designates such amounts as emergency requirements pursuant to the Budget Enforcement Act of 1990."