"5/20/1992--Conference report filed in House. Establishes the congressional budget for FY 1993 and sets forth appropriate budgetary levels for FY 1994 through 1997. Sets forth recommended budgetary levels of Federal revenues, new budget authority, budget outlays, deficits, public debt, new direct loan obligations, new primary loan guarantee commitments, and new secondary loan guarantee commitments. Displays certain budgetary levels for purposes of: (1) comparison with the maximum deficit amount under the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, for enforcement of this resolution; and (2) excluding the receipts and disbursements of the Hospital Insurance Trust Fund. Sets forth the amounts of increase in the public debt subject to limitation and the balances of the Federal retirement trust funds for FY 1993 through 1997. Displays, for enforcement purposes in the Senate, the levels of Social Security trust fund revenues and outlays for FY 1993 through 1997. Specifies the funding of major functional categories. Expresses the sense of the Congress that measures to control the growth of health care costs should be included by the committees of jurisdiction in any comprehensive health care package that they report. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the Government should sell assets; and (2) amounts realized from such sales will not recur on an annual basis and do not reduce the demand for credit. Allows budget authority and outlay allocations for legislation that increases funding for certain purposes when legislation has been reported that will not, if enacted, increase the deficit for FY 1993 through 1997. Describes such purposes as funding: (1) to improve the health and nutrition of children and to provide for services to protect children and strengthen families; (2) for economic growth initiatives for unemployment compensation and related programs; (3) to make continuing improvements in ongoing health care programs or to begin phasing-in health insurance coverage for all Americans; (4) to improve educational opportunities for individuals at the early childhood, elementary, secondary, or higher education levels, or to invest in America's children; and (5) to mitigate airport noise, improve airport safety, or to expand airport capacity. Makes inapplicable in the Senate the point of order on exceeding the maximum deficit amount for certain appropriation bills. Limits the levels of social security outlays and revenues for this resolution to the current services levels. Makes the prohibition on resolutions decreasing the excess of social security revenues over outlays applicable to any concurrent resolution on the budget for any fiscal year. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Director of the Congressional Budget Office (with the assistance of the Joint Committee on Taxation) should, to the extent feasible, each prepare a study of the dollar value of U.S. Government assistance under current law and regulations to recipients by income category. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Senate should, on or before July 2, 1992, vote on a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the Constitution relating to a Federal balanced budget, and requiring the President to annually submit a balanced budget, provided that the amendment proposed in such joint resolution shall be drafted or amended so as not to exacerbate any economic recession. Expresses the sense of the Senate that prior to the commencement of the 104th Congress, each authorizing Senate committee should conduct a comprehensive reexamination and evaluation of existing programs under its jurisdiction which result in the expenditure of Federal dollars, and report its findings to the Senate. Expresses the sense of the Senate that funds should be allocated to allow this Nation to commit to an increase in productivity and international competitiveness through a program of long term strategic investment in: (1) the development of its human resources; (2) the physical infrastructure that supports economic activity; (3) the development and commercialization of technology; and (4) productive plants and equipment. Expresses the sense of the Senate on funding for the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) for FY 1993. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) certain budget authority for defense functions for FY 1993 should be made available for defense industry conversion-related activities; and (2) a meaningful percentage of the savings in Federal defense spending in FY 1993 through 1997 should be made available for the establishment of programs to re-train and re-employ active duty members of the Armed Forces, civilian employees of the Department of Defense, and employess of private, defense-related industries who are involuntarily separated from such duty or become unemployed as a result of reductions in Federal spending for national defense. Expresses the sense of the Congress that if in decisions among priorities the Committees on Appropriations find that an excess of budget authority would remain after dividing all of the outlays that this resolution allocates to those committees for FY 1993, then to the extent that those committees wish to utilize that excess of budget authority, those committees should favor programs that cause outlays to occur more slowly, rather than employing delays of obligations or payment shifts that would increase outlays in FY 1994."