"10/8/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1992 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Agricultural Programs\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1992 for the following programs and services: (1) Office of the Secretary of Agriculture; (2) Office of the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture; (3) Office of Budget and Program Analysis; (4) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration; (5) Departmental Administration; (6) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations; (7) Office of Public Affairs; (8) Office of the Inspector General; (9) Office of the General Counsel; (10) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Economics; (11) Economic Research Service; (12) National Agricultural Statistics Service; (13) World Agricultural Outlook Board; (14) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science and Education; (15) Agricultural Research Service; (16) Cooperative State Research Service; (17) Extension Service; (18) National Agricultural Library; (19) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services; (20) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; (21) Food Safety and Inspection Service; (22) Federal Grain Inspection Service; (23) Agricultural Cooperative Service; (24) Agricultural Marketing Service; (25) Packers and Stockyards Administration; (26) Office of the Under Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity Programs; (27) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service; (28) Federal Crop Insurance Corporation; and (29) Commodity Credit Corporation Fund.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Conservation Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment; (2) Soil Conservation Service; and (3) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service. Limits funds use for the Wetlands Reserve Program to not more than 50,000 acres of FY 1992 enrollment.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Farmers Home and Rural Development Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) Office of the Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development; (2) Farmers Home Administration; (3) Rural Electrification Administration; and (4) Office of the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Domestic Food Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Food and Consumer Services; (2) Food and Nutrition Service, including the Food Stamp Program and the farmers market coupon demonstration program under the special supplemental food program for women, infants and children (WIC); and (3) Human Nutrition Information Service.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Foreign Assistance and Related Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) Foreign Agricultural Service including Ameri Flora '92 Exposition; (2) Public Law 480 Program Account; (3) Commodity Credit Corporation; (4) Commodity Credit Corporation Export Loans Program Account; (5) Office of International Cooperation and Development; and (6) Scientific Activities Overseas.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Related Agencies and Food and Drug Administration\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) Food and Drug Administration; (2) Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation; (3) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and (4) Farm Credit Administration. Amends the Saccharin Study and Labeling Act to extend through May 1, 1997, the moratorium on the authority of the Secretary of Health and Human Services with respect to saccharin.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Specifies certain uses and limits on or prohibitions against the use of funds appropriated by this Act. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to initiate construction on not less than 20 new projects under the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act and not less than five new projects under the Flood Control Act. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to relocate the Hawaii State Office of the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) from Hilo, Hawaii, to Honolulu, Hawaii. Prohibits employee reductions below specified levels for the FmHA, the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, the Rural Electrification Administration, the Soil Conservation Service, and the Food and Drug Administration. Prohibits the funds available under this Act to be used to exclude from certain assistance any crop of valencia oranges damaged or destroyed by freeze or related conditions in 1990. Makes available until expended obligations for: (1) the reserve fund for the Grasshopper and Mormon Cricket Control Programs; and (2) the Office of International Cooperation and Development, Middle-Income Country Training Program. Defers obligation of specified Market Promotion Program funds until September 30, 1992. Amends the Housing Act of 1949 to extend through FY 1992: (1) rural rental housing loan authority; and (2) rural mutual and self-help housing grant and loan authority."