"9/25/1992--House receded and concurred with amendment. Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Veterans Affairs\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 to the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for: (1) the Veterans Benefits Administration, including the Native American Veteran Housing Loan Program Account; (2) the Veterans Health Administration, including the Health Professional Education Loan Payment Program; and (3) departmental administration, including the Office of the Inspector General. Authorizes the transfer of funds among specified appropriations. Authorizes the use of appropriations to procure consultant services. Authorizes the use of certain appropriations to pay prior year accrued obligations for certain benefits. Requires the VA for FY 1993 to include resale losses in the net value calculation when determining whether to acquire the property or pay the claim under the guarantee in the veterans home loan guaranty program. Specifies the use of funds by the Office of Facilities of the VA.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Housing and Urban Development\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for: (1) housing programs; (2) community planning and development; (3) research and technology; (4) fair housing activities; and (5) management and administration, including the Office of the Inspector General. Limits the amounts of specified loan obligations, including guarantee commitments of the Government National Mortgage Association. Amends the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act to make institutions of higher learning eligible for the public housing youth sports program. Allows the payment of transportation costs under such program. Specifies that program grants may be used for residents of projects with substantial drug problems. Makes funds available for the renewal of expiring low-income subsidy contracts. Makes funds available for grants to public housing agencies for use in eliminating drug-related crime in public housing projects. Makes funds available for the low-income moderate rehabilitation program to be used to assist homeless individuals. Appropriates funds to Milton Residences for the Elderly, Inc., for development costs incurred in connection with the site for a HUD project. Allows the City of Springfield, Massachusetts, to retain any housing development grants awarded for use in connection with the Symphony Apartments housing development project, if before October 1, 1993, the City commences construction or substantial rehabilitation activities. Allows the City of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, to retain any housing development grants awarded for use in connection with the Washington Square Phase II housing development project, if before October 1, 1993, the City commences construction or substantial rehabilitation activities. Makes certain recaptured amounts available to Camden, New Jersey, for a housing development project. Authorizes the Oklahoma Department of Commence to use its community development grant funds to repay an economic development loan. Grants environmental clearance waivers to enable Youngstown, Ohio, to receive funding for three urban development action grant projects. Limits the number of career appointee positions in the Senior Executive Service in HUD. Cancels the indebtedness of the Sunbright Utility District in Morgan County, Tennessee, with respect to certain loans. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to provide authority for a low-rent housing project in Jefferson County, Texas. Reallocates low-income housing funds previously authorized for Port Arthur, Texas, to include Rockwall and Galveston, Texas. Amends the National Housing Act and the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to increase the FHA mortgage loan limits. Requires the Office of Lead Based Paint Abatement and Poisoning Prevention to be contained within the Office of the Secretary of HUD. Grants the Office the responsibility for all matters related to the abatement of lead in housing and research related to lead in housing and research related to lead abatement. Requires HUD to revise its FY 1992 notice of fund availability for public housing development/major reconstruction of obsolete projects so that there contains no limitation on the amount of such funds available for public housing replacement activities. Declares that the fair market rentals for the Salt Lake City-Ogden, Utah, metropolitan statistical area in effect on October 1, 1991, shall remain in effect until October 1, 1993. Requires the Secretary of HUD to take specific actions to assist two projects of the United Cerebral Palsy of New Jersey, Inc., in Newark and Teaneck, New Jersey. Deems to have been conducted pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary, certain rehabilitation activities undertaken by the Committee for Dignity and Fairness for the Homeless Housing Development, Inc., in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Directs the Secretary of HUD to forego and forbear from all efforts to recapture funding from the Housing Authority of Seattle, Washington, based on a finding pertaining to tenant utility allowances. Requires the Secretary to restore any funds previously recaptured. Directs the Secretary to cancel the indebtedness of the town of McLain, Mississippi, relating to a public facilities loan. Relieves the town of all liability to the Government for the outstanding principal balance, accrued interest, and any other fees and charges payable in connection with such loan.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Independent Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 to the: (1) American Battle Monuments Commission; (2) Commission on National and Community Service; (3) Consumer Product Safety Commission; (4) Court of Veterans Appeals; (5) Department of Defense-Civil for cemeterial expenses, Army; (6) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); (7) Executive Office of the President for the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental Quality, the National Space Council, the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Points of Light Foundation; (8) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA); (9) General Services Administration for the Consumer Information Center; (10) Department of Health and Human Services for the Office of Consumer Affairs; (11) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); (12) National Commission on American Indian, Alaska Native, and Native Hawaiian Housing; (13) National Credit Union Administration for the obligations of the Central Liquidity Facility; (14) National Science Foundation; (15) Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; (16) Selective Service System; and (17) the Interagency Council on the Homeless. Requires the Administrator of EPA to ensure that a specified percentage of Federal funding for prime and subcontracts for wastewater treatment and leaking underground storage tanks grants, be made available to business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically black colleges and universities. Sets forth limitations on average employment in EPA headquarters. Provides for the donation of the U.S. library facility located on the Marine Science Center, Oregon State University, Newport, Oregon to the University. Provides for the use of the EPA Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form R in the implementation of the Pollution Prevention Act. Extends the comment period for revisions to certain hazardous waste rules to October 1, 1994. Directs the EPA to report to specified congressional committees on a study of the effect of existing regulations on efforts to recover metals from waste. Prohibits the use of funds for FY 1993 to promulgate, implement, or enforce certain regulations under the Solid Waste Disposal Act concerning process wastewater from phosphoric acid production and phosphogypsum from phosphoric acid production. Allows the EPA to receive funds from the Exxon Valdez settlement to be credited to the Exxon Valdez Settlement Fund for environmental restoration activities. Directs the Director of FEMA to promulgate through rulemaking a schedule of fees applicable to persons subject to FEMA's radiological Emergency Preparedness regulations. Allows FEMA to store, stockpile, or access surplus stocks of Meals, Ready-to-Eat (MREs) to provide assistance in situations of disaster or emergency. Authorizes FEMA to make such stocks available to the Interagency Council of the Homeless for domestic, civilian assistance. Prohibits FEMA from using funds to chauffeur employees. Limits the number of career appointee positions in such agency for FY 1993. Sets forth limitations on average employment in FEMA headquarters. Allows nonsupervisory employees of the National Preparedness Directorate of FEMA to participate in collective bargaining activities. Requires FEMA to transfer of the Office of Technological Hazards from the State and Local Programs and Support Directorate to the United States Fire Administration within 90 days of enactment of this Act. Requires FEMA to merge the National Preparedness Directorate with the State and Local Programs and Support Directorate. Directs the Director of FEMA to review its organizational structure and submit a reorganization plan to the appropriate committees of the Congress which reflects changing mission requirements and priorities. Requires the review to include an assessment of the National Preparedness Directorate and examine potential alternatives to meet that directorate's principal objectives while increasing overall agency efficiency. Requires NASA to ensure that a specified percentage of Federal funding for prime and subcontracts for authorized programs, including the space station by the time operational status is obtained, be made available to business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically black colleges and universities. Designates the NASA's Mission Simulator and Training Facility, Building Number 5 as the Jake Garn Mission Simulator and Training Facility.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Corporations\n    Authorizes certain corporations and agencies of HUD to make commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as necessary to carry out provisions under the Government Corporation Control Act. Allows any collections by such corporations and agencies to be used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments to the extent provided under this Act, with specified exceptions. Makes funds available to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) for: (1) payment of expenditures of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Fund; (2) the FDIC affordable housing program; and (3) minimum requirements and guidelines of the Bank Enterprise Act of 1991. Makes funds available for the Office of Inspector General of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Requires the President of the Resolution Trust Corporation to ensure that a specified percentage of Federal funding for prime and subcontracts for authorized programs be made available to business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically black colleges and universities.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Specifies certain uses, limitations, and prohibitions on uses of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1993 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Prohibits the use of funds by the Department of Veterans Affairs for any new lease of real property above a specified amount unless a report is submitted to the congressional Committees on Appropriations and a period of 30 days expires after submission of such report. Directs the Resolution Trust Corporation to report to the Congress at least once a month on its review of certain insolvent institution cases resolved by the FSLIC. Permits the City of Walnut Creek, California, to conduct audits biennially. Requires the Administrator of the EPA to report to the Congress with recommendations on the reauthorization of the Safe Drinking Water Act. Specifies concerns to be addressed. Directs the EPA to conduct a multi-media risk assessment of radon. Requires the Science Advisory Board to review such study and submit a recommendation to the Administrator. Requires the Administrator to report such recommendation together with the EPA assessment to the specified congressional committees. Directs the Administrator, not later than December 31, 1993, to publish such reports in the Federal Register and issue final regulations under the Safe Drinking Water Act concerning radionuclides in drinking water. Authorizes the Administrator or a primacy State, with respect to monitoring requirements for organic chemicals, pesticides, PCBs, or unregulated contaminants promulgated in January 1991 (known as the Phase II rule), to modify such requirements for drinking water systems serving small populations."