"8/1/1991--House receded and concurred with amendment. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1992 Appropriations\n    District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1992 - Appropriates funds to the District of Columbia for FY 1992 for: (1) the Federal payment to the District of Columbia; (2) the Federal contribution to retirement funds; (3) the Metropolitan Police Department; (4) District of Columbia Public Schools; (5) the District of Columbia General Hospital; (6) the Department of Human Services for the breast and cervical cancer screening program; (7) the District of Columbia Institute for Mental Health; and (8) the Children's National Medical Center for a cost-shared National Child Protection Center. Requires that the specified amount contributed to the District of Columbia for the Direct Activity Purchase System (DAPS) to maintain and improve public school facilities and grounds be returned to the Treasury if the amount spent by the District out of its own funds for such purposes in FY 1991 exceeds the amount spent in FY 1992. Appropriates specified sums out of the District of Columbia general fund for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (8) repayments of specified loans and interest; (9) repayment of the general fund deficit; (10) employees' optical and dental benefits; (11) capital outlay; (12) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund and water construction projects; (13) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; and (14) the Cable Television Enterprise Fund. Requires the District of Columbia to operate and maintain a telephone hotline for Lorton-area residents to receive information concerning escapes, fires, and riots at Lorton prison. Directs the Mayor to submit to the District of Columbia Council by October 1, 1991, for a reorganization plan for the Department of Finance and Revenue. Sets forth certain uses and restrictions on the expenditure of appropriations made by this Act. Prohibits the use of funds for: (1) activities which permit or encourage partisan political activities; (2) the salary of any District of Columbia government employee whose name, title, grade, salary, or work and salary history are not available for inspection by specified congressional committees and the District of Columbia Council, or whose name and salary are not available for public inspection; (3) publicity or propaganda purposes; (4) abortions, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term; or (5) reprogramming, unless the reprogramming was approved according to specified procedures. Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1993 be transmitted to the Congress by April 15, 1992. Requires the Mayor to develop an annual plan for capital outlay borrowings. Prohibits the Mayor from: (1) borrowing funds for capital projects without the prior approval of the District of Columbia Council; or (2) using money borrowed for capital projects for operating expenses of the District of Columbia government. Directs the Mayor to submit to the D.C. Council, within 30 days after the end of the first quarter of FY 1992, the FY 1992 revenue estimates. Amends the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act to extend, for one year, the District's authority to sell its general obligation bonds through negotiated sales. Prohibits the renewal or extension of any sole source contract with the District of Columbia government without opening that contract to the competitive bidding process, subject to exception. Requires any sequestration order under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) to be applied to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act (rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts) which is not specifically exempted from sequestration by specified Federal law. Provides for repayment to the Federal Treasury of any amounts appropriated and paid to the District of Columbia before a sequestration order is issued, applying the sequestration percentage proportionately to each account not specifically exempted from sequestration. Requires the District of Columbia to pay interest on its quarterly payments to the United States that are made more than 60 days after its receipt of an itemized statement from the Federal Bureau of Prisons of amounts due for housing D.C. convicts in Federal penitentiaries. Excludes up to 75 officers or members of the Metropolitan Police Department who were hired before February 14, 1980, and who retire on disability before the end of 1991, from computation of the disability retirement rate for the purpose of reducing the authorized Federal payment to the District of Columbia Police Officers and Fire Fighters' Retirement Fund. Provides that if any of the 75 light duty positions that become vacant under this provision are filled they must be filled with civilian employees or filled temporarily by officers or members of the Police Department. Authorizes an entity of the District of Columbia government to accept and use a gift or donation during FY 1992 if: (1) the Mayor approves; and (2) the entity uses such gift or donation to carry out its authorized functions or duties. Requires the entity to keep accurate and detailed records of acceptance and use of any gift or donation and to make them available for audit and public inspection.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Fiscal Year 1991 Supplemental District of Columbia Funds\n    District of Columbia Supplemental Appropriations and Rescissions Act, 1991 - Makes supplemental appropriations (including rescissions) to the District of Columbia for FY 1991 for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) public works; (6) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (7) repayment of specified loans and interest; (8) short-term borrowing; (9) employees' optical and dental benefits; (10) capital outlay; and (11) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund and water construction projects. Rescinds specified FY 1991 funds earmarked for human support services. Repeals specified provisions of Federal law relating to: (1) repayment by the District of Columbia of its general fund deficit; and (2) a mandate to the Mayor of the District to reduce appropriations and expenditures for supply, energy, equipment, and personal services. Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1992 be transmitted to the Congress by May 17, 1991, instead of April 15, 1991. Authorizes an entity of the District of Columbia government to accept and use a gift or donation during FY 1991 if: (1) the Mayor approves; and (2) the entity uses such gift or donation to carry out its authorized functions or duties. Directs the entity to keep accurate and detailed records of acceptance and use of any gift or donation and to make them available for audit and public inspection."