"3/22/1991--Conference report filed in House. Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1991 - Makes FY 1991 supplemental appropriations for incremental costs of the Department of Defense (DOD) and the Department of Transportation (DOT) associated with operations in and around the Persian Gulf area known as Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm. Appropriates such funds to the Persian Gulf Regional Defense Fund, which is established in the Treasury. Appropriates additional funds from current and future balances in the Defense Cooperation Account. Makes such funds available only for transfers by the Secretaries of Defense or Transportation, with the approval of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to the following accounts in DOD: (1) military personnel; (2) operation and maintenance; (3) procurement; (4) research, development, test, and evaluation; (5) revolving and management funds; (6) combat costs of Operations Desert Shield and Desert Storm; (7) military construction, Army; and (8) Coast Guard operating expenses. Directs the Secretary of Defense, in administering the Fund, to use the corpus of the Fund only to the extent that amounts from the Defense Cooperation Account are not currently available. Requires the Secretary to transfer certain amounts from the Account to the Fund in order to maintain a minimum corpus balance. States that the authority to transfer funds from the Fund and from the Account is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in this or any other Act making appropriations to DOD for FY 1991. Terminates the Fund after payment of all incremental costs for which the Fund is established. Authorizes the Secretary during FY 1991 to transfer a specified amount among the FY 1991 military personnel appropriation accounts to reflect changes in expenses due to the order to active duty of members of the National Guard and reserves in support of operations in the Persian Gulf. Requires the Congress to be notified of such reprogramming of funds. Authorizes providers of medical services under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) to voluntarily waive any required copayment for medical services provided after August 2, 1990, until the termination of Operation Desert Storm. Requires the Mitchel Field Health Care Facility in New York to be funded only from the operation and maintenance, Navy, appropriation. Requires all equipment, supplies, and materials of the United States used in the Persian Gulf after August 1, 1990, to be returned to the United States as soon as practicable in conjunction with the removal of U.S. forces from the area. Outlines exceptions for certain equipment, supplies, or materials. Directs the President to attempt to obtain reimbursement from the governments of Middle East countries for the cost of U.S. materials that are not so removed because of impracticality. Prohibits any U.S. or captured Iraqi equipment, supplies, or materials from being transferred to the government of any foreign country in the Middle East unless the President notifies specified congressional committees of such transfer. Directs the President to: (1) notify the Congress of the proposed storage of any material as prepositioned equipment in the Middle East; and (2) report to the defense and appropriations committees on the quantity, condition, value, disposition, and manner of seizure of all enemy equipment in the possession of the United States, as well as enemy equipment falling into the hands of allied forces, during the Persian Gulf War. Directs the President to report to the Congress on the redeployment of U.S. armed forces that were deployed in the Persian Gulf in connection with Operation Desert Storm. Prohibits funds appropriated or made available by this Act or any other provision of law from being available for sales, credits, or guarantees for defense articles or services under the Arms Export Control Act to any country that has made a commitment to contribute resources to defray the costs of Operation Desert Storm and has not fulfilled such commitment. States that the establishment of the Fund by this Act and the establishment of a working capital account pursuant to the Persian Gulf Conflict Supplemental Authorization and Personnel Benefits Act of 1991 shall be treated as establishment of the same account in the Treasury. Prohibits amounts appropriated to the Fund from being used for fuel price increases."