"9/24/1992--Conference report filed in House. Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of the Interior\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 within the Department of the Interior for: (1) the Bureau of Land Management; (2) the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; (3) the National Park Service; (4) the Geological Survey; (5) the Minerals Management Service; (6) the Bureau of Mines; (7) the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement; (8) the Bureau of Indian Affairs; (9) the Office of Territorial and International Affairs; and (10) Departmental offices, including the Office of the Secretary, the Office of the Solicitor, the Office of Construction Management, the Office of the Inspector General, and the National Indian Gaming Commission. Appropriates funds to the Secretary of the Interior to establish a special fund from the Federal share of moneys received from the disposal of salvage forest products or timber prepared for sale. Makes such fund available, without further appropriation, for planning and preparing salvage timber for disposal, the administration of timber sales, and the subsequent site preparation and reforestation. Prohibits the use of funds available to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement to create or maintain more than one Deputy Director position. Requires any person receiving a patent pursuant to the Act commonly known as the Mining Law of 1872 to pay fair market value for the interest in the land owned by the United States exclusive of and without regard to the mineral deposits in the land. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish a special fund from the Federal share of moneys received from the disposal of salvage forest products or timber prepared for sale. Requires such fund to be available for planning and preparing salvage timber for disposal, the administration of timber sales, and the subsequent site preparation and reforestation. Authorizes the use of appropriations for the emergency reconstruction, replacement, or repair of facilities or equipment damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, storm, or other unavoidable causes. Allows the Secretary to authorize the expenditure or transfer of any no-year appropriations, in addition to the amounts included in the budget programs of agencies, for: (1) the suppression or emergency prevention of forest or range fires on or threatening land under the jurisdiction of the Department; (2) emergency actions related to earthquakes, floods, volcanoes, storms, or other unavoidable causes; (3) activities related to oil spills; (4) grasshopper and Mormon cricket outbreaks; (5) emergency reclamation projects; and (6) the assumption of regulatory authority where necessary. Prohibits the use of funds for preleasing and leasing activities for Outer Continental Shelf Lease Sale 137 or 151 in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. Prohibits the use of funds for the preparation for, or conduct of, pre-leasing and leasing activities of lands within a certain area of the Outer Continental Shelf off the Atlantic coastline of Rhode Island south into Florida. Prohibits the use of funds for the financing of agreements or arrangements for the management of lands, water, and interests on Matagorda Island, Texas, which were purchased with amounts from the Land and Water Conservation Fund. Authorizes the Secretary to pay lawful debts incurred on behalf of the Kiowa Comanche Apache Intertribal Land Use Committee in connection with the construction and operation of the Native Sun Water Park in Lawton, Oklahoma, from funds in the Treasury held jointly for Kiowa, Comanche and Apache Tribes.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1993 for the Department of Agriculture for the Forest Service. Extends the use of funds received for timber salvage sales for certain timber sales preparation and for design, engineering, and supervision of construction of roads lost to fire or other cause associated with the timber sales program. Makes funds available to conduct a program for high priority projects within the scope of the approved budget to be carried out by the Youth Conservation Corps. Prohibits the use of funds for timber sale preparation using clearcutting in hardwood stands in excess of 25 percent of FY 1989 harvested volume in Wayne National Forest, Ohio. Prohibits the use of funds to issue a special use authorization permitting land use and occupancy and surface disturbing activities for any project to be constructed on Rock Creek, Madera County, California. Sets conditions on the funding of special use authorization for such activities for any project on a specified portion of Lewis Fork Creek in the same county. Makes funds available to the Chief of the Forest Service for official reception and representation expenses. Prohibits the use of funds for timber sales using clearcutting on the Shawnee National Forest in Illinois to the greatest extent possible and consistent with the forest land management plan. Authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to negotiate sales of Pacific yew to parties manufacturing taxol in the United States for use in humans. Directs the Forest Service to establish an office in Ohio for the purpose of representing and administering the Wayne National Forest on a forest-wide basis. Authorizes the Forest Service to offer for sale salvageable timber in certain regions in FY 1993. Declares that for forests known to contain the Northern spotted owl, such sales may be offered as long as the offering will not render the area unsuitable as habitat for the owl. Requires timber salvage activity in spotted owl habitat to be done in full compliance with existing environmental and forest management laws. Provides for funding to establish a National Forest Foundation. Establishes a pilot program for land management stewardship contracts in the Kaibab, Dixie, Idaho panhandle, Kootenai, Coconino National Forests and the Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit. Authorizes the Forest Service to pay transportation, lodging, and subsistence expenses of employees who assist scientific, professional, or technical employees and who are bona fide students of accredited colleges or universities who are pursuing courses related to the field in which employed. Authorizes the Forest Service to issue a contract without competition to the National Research Council to begin an assessment of the forests in the Pacific Northwest. Makes funds for clean coal technology available in FY 1994 and 1995. Makes appropriations for the Department of Energy for, among other things, fossil energy research and development, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) and the SPR Account. Makes funds available for a grant for the National Research Center for Coal and Energy. Makes appropriations to the Department of Health and Human Services for the Indian Health Service for Indian health services and facilities. Appropriates funds to: (1) the Department of Education for the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education for Indian education; (2) the Office of Navajo and Hopi Relocation; (3) the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development; (4) the Smithsonian Institution; (5) construction and improvements at the National Zoological Park; (6) restoration and repair of buildings owned or occupied by the Smithsonian Institution; (7) the National Gallery of Art (NGA); (8) repair, restoration, and renovation of buildings of the NGA; and (9) the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Makes appropriations for: (1) the National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities for the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities; (2) the Institute of Museum Services; (3) the Commission of Fine Arts; (4) National Capital arts and cultural affairs; (5) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation; (6) the National Capital Planning Commission; (7) the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission; (8) the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation; and (9) the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council. Sets forth uses and prohibitions on uses of such funds.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth uses and limitations or prohibitions on uses of funds appropriated by this Act. Prohibits the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture from using such funds for leasing of oil and natural gas by noncompetitive bidding on public lands within the Shawnee National Forest, Illinois. Prohibits the use of funds in this Act to evaluate, consider, process, or award oil, gas, or geothermal leases on Federal lands in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, State of Washington. Prohibits the use of funds for deer hunting in the Loxahatchee National Wildlife Refuge. Prohibits the use of funds in this Act for the sale of timber from giant sequoia trees which are located on National Forest System or Bureau of Land Management lands. Prohibits the use of funds to ensure that hardwood saw timber harvested from Federal lands east of the 100th meridian is marked in a manner to make it readily identifiable at all times before its manufacture. Amends the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1993, to allow the balance of the appraised value of the Grandview State Park lands transferred from West Virginia to the National Park Service to be applied as a credit towards the requirements for inland waterway transportation pertaining to the Moorefield and Petersburg, West Virginia, flood protection projects. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to transfer the Pine Hill School Health Center in Pine Hill, New Mexico, to the Department of Health and Human Services for Indian health purposes. Waives compensation for such transfer. Prohibits the use of funds by the Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management to increase fees charged for communication site use of lands by more than a specified percentage. Specifies required percentage payments to be made by the U.S. Government to States affected by decisions relating to the Northern Spotted Owl from FY 1993 receipts collected during the five-year baseline period of FY 1986 through 1990. Makes funds available to the Forest Service for interactions with and providing technical assistance to rural communities for sustainable rural development outside the boundaries of National Forest System lands. Authorizes the use of funds to reimburse employees for the cost of State licenses and certification fees pursuant to their employment. Provides for making payment to the Oregon and California land-grant counties in Oregon from FY 1993 receipts derived from Oregon and California grant lands. Makes Senate declarations with respect to the moral responsibility of corporate America. Removes restrictions on the public use of real property known as Aloha Stadium in Hawaii. Requires the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, to establish a notice and comment process for proposed actions of the Forest Service concerning projects and activities implementing land and resource management plans developed under the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974. Modifies procedure for appeals of decisions of the Forest Service. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to exchange properties in Anchorage, Alaska, to meet requirements of the United States Geological Survey located in Anchorage. Reduces all accounts under this Act by .85 percent with the exception of payments required by law, payments to certain Indian groups, and certain small independent agencies."