"11/7/1991--House agreed to Senate amendment with amendment. National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1992 - Authorizes appropriations to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for: (1) research and development; (2) space flight, control, and data communications; (3) construction of facilities; (4) research and program management, including scientific consultations; and (5) the Inspector General. Permits appropriations for the first two numbered categories to be used for certain items of a capital nature (other than land acquisition) required for the performance of research and development contracts and for grants to nonprofit educational and research organizations to augment their research facilities. Prohibits the use of these funds for the construction of any major facility whose estimated cost exceeds a specified amount, unless the Administrator of NASA notifies specified congressional leadership and committees. Authorizes fund use, subject to limitations, for facilities construction, repair, or modification and for unforeseen programmatic facility project needs. Amends the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 1991 to increase the authorization of appropriations for the Comet Rendezvous Asteroid Flyby/Cassini (CRAF/Cassini) mission. Modifies requirements regarding when certain amounts are available for the mission. Authorizes the Administrator to reprogram, after notifying specified congressional committees, up to a specified amount of funds, authorized for research and development, for the research and development subcategory of physics and astronomy. Permits upward variances of funds for facilities construction under circumstances outlined in this Act. Authorizes certain fund transfers and makes available specified funds for the construction and modification of laboratories and other installations. Requires the Administrator to notify specified congressional leadership and committees of the nature, cost, and need for such construction before expending the funds in question. Prohibits, until 30 days following congressional receipt of the Administrator's full explanation, the use of funds appropriated pursuant to this Act for any program that: (1) has been eliminated by the Congress; (2) is in excess of the amount actually authorized for the particular program (except for construction of facilities); or (3) has not been presented to either of the relevant congressional committees. Requires NASA to keep the committees fully and currently informed regarding all activities and responsibilities within the jurisdiction of those committees. Requires any Federal entity to furnish any information requested relating to such activity or responsibility. Establishes the Office of Facilities Maintenance within the Office of Management Systems and Facilities and requires it to plan and direct facilities maintenance management for all NASA sites. Expresses the sense of the Congress that it is in the national interest to give consideration to the geographical distribution of Federal research funds whenever feasible. Prohibits a civil space station authorized under this Act from carrying or placing in orbit any nuclear weapon or other weapon of mass destruction. Permits such civil space stations to be used only for peaceful purposes. Requires the Administrator, at the time of submission of the President's annual budget, to transmit to the Congress: (1) a five-year budget detailing development costs for each NASA program expected to exceed a specified amount; and (2) an estimate of the life-cycle costs associated with each such program. Mandates a feasibility study on initiating a National Scholars Program of Federal student aid to increase the number of Ph.D. recipients in mathematics, science, and related disciplines among the Nation's economically disadvantaged. Amends the Commercial Space Launch Act to: (1) authorize appropriations to carry out the Act; and (2) authorize appropriations for a program to ensure the resiliency of the Nation's space infrastructure, only if a law is enacted establishing that program within the Department of Transportation. Authorizes appropriations to carry out the activities of the National Space Council. Limits the amount the Council may use for official reception and representation expenses. Requires the Council to reimburse other agencies for at least one-half of the personnel compensation costs of individuals detailed to it. Declares that it is the sense of the Congress that the Council should establish policy recommendations for carrying out the President's commitment to maintaining the continuity of Landsat data. Requires such recommendations to be transmitted to the Congress at the time of submission of the President's fiscal year 1993 budget. Authorizes appropriations to the Secretary of Commerce for the Office of Space Commerce. Amends the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 1988 to modify requirements regarding space station budget estimates. Requires the Administrator to submit to the Congress, along with NASA's FY 1993 budget request, a study: (1) assessing the usefulness of granting NASA multiyear contracting authority similar to that granted the armed forces under existing law; and (2) recommending at least five programs to be considered by the Congress for multiyear contracting. Prohibits fraudulent use of \"Made in America\" labels. Declares ineligible for any NASA contract or subcontract under this Act any person violating that prohibition. Requires, subject to exception, compliance with specified Federal law, commonly known as the Buy American Act. Prohibits a person providing articles to NASA under contract entered into after enactment of this Act from excluding NASA quality assurance personnel from work sites unless the Administrator has submitted a copy of the contract provision permitting such exclusion to the Congress at least 60 days before entering into the contract. Establishes in the Treasury the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Endeavor Teacher Fellowship Trust Fund (Fund) consisting of gifts and donations plus any amounts transferred by the Administrator from the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Gifts and Donations Trust Fund. Requires income from investment of Fund principal to be used to create the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Endeavor Teacher Fellowship Program to award fellowships to selected U.S. nationals who are undergraduate students pursuing certified teaching degrees in elementary education or in secondary education in mathematics, science, or technology disciplines. Civil Space Employee Testing Act of 1991 - Requires the Administrator to establish a program, applicable to NASA employees responsible for safety-sensitive, security, or national security functions, of preemployment, reasonable suspicion, random, and post-accident testing for alcohol or a controlled substance. Mandates that the Administrator require NASA contractors to establish such a program regarding contractor employees. Authorizes the Administrator to provide for periodic recurring testing of such employees. Provides for suspension, disqualification, or dismissal of NASA and NASA contractor employees and rehabilitation. Prohibits inconsistent State or local laws or regulations."