"5/5/2003--Introduced. Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2004 and 2005 - Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 2004 and 2005 - Authorizes appropriations for FY 2004 and 2005 for: (1) the Department of State; and (2) U.S. international broadcasting activities. Sets forth certain Department of State authorities and activities, including: (1) diplomatic and consular activities; and (2) educational and cultural activities. Sets forth certain requirements with respect to: (1) the organization and personnel of the Department of State; (2) international organizations; and (3) U.S. international broadcasting activities. United States International Leadership Act of 2003 - Establishes a caucus of democratic countries that will help advance U.S. interests at international organizations and multilateral institutions. Global Internet Freedom Act of 2003 - Establishes within the Broadcasting Board of Governors an Office of Global Internet Freedom to develop and implement a comprehensive global strategy to combat state-sponsored and state-directed Internet jamming and persecution of those who use the Internet. Amends the United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 to establish the United States International Broadcasting Agency as an independent agency of the executive branch (effectively abolishing the the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the International Broadcasting Bureau). International Free Media Act of 2003 - Establishes within the Department of State a Coordinator for International Free Media to coordinate U.S. government policies, programs, and projects that promote international press freedoms and free media. Sets forth provisions with respect to: (1) certain reporting requirements; and (2) human rights violations in certain countries. Defense Trade and Security Assistance Reform Act of 2003 - Amends the Arms Export Control Act to set forth requirements: (1) prohibiting a foreign country from transferring U.S. defense articles and services to a terrorist-supporting country; (2) authorizing the President to control the transfer of defense articles (other than firearms) and defense services to foreign persons within the United States; (3) urging establishment of new license exemptions with respect to the export of defense articles and services only after careful coordination with appropriate U.S. law enforcement agencies; (4) developing mechanisms to identify in connection with the export licensing process persons who have been convicted of violating laws relating to the financing of terrorism; and (5) prohibiting the sale or transfer to the military, police, or intelligence services of a foreign country in which the United States has imposed an arms embargo. Sets forth requirements imposing stringent controls on all items on the Missile Technology Control Regime (MTCR) Annex. Authorizes appropriations under the Arms Export Control Act, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and the Security Assistance Act of 2000 with respect to foreign military sales and financing, international military education and training (IMET), security assistance for Israel and Egypt, demining and related activities, the Cooperative Development Program, maritime interdiction patrol boats for Mozambique, East Timor, democracy-building efforts in Cuba, the Congo Basin Forest Partnership (CBFP) program, combating piracy of U.S. copyrighted materials, and nonproliferation and disarmament activities. Missile Threat Reduction Act of 2003 - Amends the Arms Export Control Act to increase the duration of existing sanctions against foreign persons who violate U.S. export controls with respect to the transfer of missile equipment and technology on the MTCR Annex. Requires sanctions imposed under the Arms Export Control Act and the Export Adminsitration Act of 1979 to extend to governmental entities and other entities, including transactions involving third parties. Authorizes foreign assistance and technical assistance to countries that agree to destroy their ballistic missiles."