"1/5/2011--Introduced. Amends Rule VIII (Order of Business) of the Standing Rules of the Senate to repeal the rule that motions: (1) made during the first two hours of a new legislative day to proceed to consideration of any matter be determined without debate, except motions or measures to amend the Standing Rules; or (2) made after the two-hour period be subject to debate. Limits debate on a motion to proceed to consideration of any matter, and any related debatable motion or appeal, to two hours, equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority and minority leaders or their designees. Makes non-debatable any motion to: (1) go into executive session to consider a specified item of executive business; or (2) proceed to consider any privileged matter. Prohibits a Senator from objecting on behalf of another Senator to proceeding to a motion or matter without disclosing that Senator's name (thus eliminating secret holds). Amends Rule XXII (Precedence of Motions) to authorize the majority and minority leader, after debate has concluded under the rule (cloture) but before final disposition of the pending matter, to each offer up to three amendments identified as leadership amendments if they have been timely filed and are germane to the matter being amended. Limits debate on a leadership amendment to one hour equally divided. Prohibits division of such amendments. Repeals the requirement that a measure, motion, or other matter pending before the Senate, or the unfinished business, be the unfinished business to the exclusion of all other business until its disposal once cloture is invoked on continuous debate about the matter. Revises the procedure following the failure of a cloture vote on a pending measure, motion, or other matter. Requires the Senate, if the question on a cloture motion is decided in the negative, to enter a period of continuous debate (filibuster) on the pending measure, motion, other matter, or the unfinished business. Requires such period to continue as long as the subject of the cloture vote is the pending business. Requires the Presiding Officer, if no Senator seeks recognition during the period of a filibuster, to note that such period has ended and cloture shall be considered invoked. Requires the reading of any Senate or House amendment to be dispensed with, after cloture is invoked (as under the current Rule) or during a filibuster period, when the proposed amendment has been: (1) identified; and (2) available in printed form at the desk of the Members for at least 24 hours. Limits postcloture debate on a nomination to two hours."