"11/7/2011--Introduced. Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century or MAP-21 - Authorizes appropriations out of the Highway Trust Fund (HTF) (other than the Mass Transit Account) equal to current federal highway spending levels plus inflation for FY2012 and FY2013 for: (1) certain new and existing core federal-aid highway programs, and (2) Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) administrative expenses. Prescribes ceiling obligations for federal-aid highway and highway safety construction programs, with specified exceptions. Revises the National Highway System (NHS) program. Permits conventional combination vehicles to operate on all NHS segments, except those as of enactment of MAP-21: (1) that were open to traffic, and (2) on which all nonpassenger commercial motor vehicles are banned. Amends the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 to repeal the National Network (a national truck route, including the Interstate System (IS) and certain parts of the federal-aid primary system.) Directs the Secretary of Transportation (DOT) to distribute federal-aid highway funds apportioned to states for each fiscal year: (1) among the national highway performance (new core program), the transportation mobility (new core program), the highway safety improvement, the national freight (new core program), and the congestion mitigation and air quality improvement (CMAQ) programs; as well as (2) to metropolitan transportation planning. Directs the Secretary to establish and implement a national highway performance program. (Effectively consolidates the interstate maintenance, NHS, and part of the highway bridge programs.) Requires states to develop risk-based asset management plans. Requires a state to obligate a specified amount of the apportionment of national highway performance program funds for the restoration of certain IS pavement and NHS bridges. Revises the emergency relief fund program. Reauthorizes appropriations for the emergency relief fund for the repair or reconstruction of highways, roads, and trails damaged as a result of a disaster. Authorizes the Secretary to obligate fund amounts for the repair or reconstruction of disaster-affected tribal transportation facilities, federal lands transportation facilities, and other federally-owned roads that are open to public travel, whether or not they are federal-aid highways. Directs the Secretary to establish and implement a transportation mobility program (TMP). (Effectively replaces the surface transportation program.) Authorizes a state to obligate the apportionment of TMP funds for projects to improve conditions and performance on federal-aid highways and bridges and tunnels on public roads. Makes certain TMP allocations to areas of a state based on population. Requires a state to obligate a specified amount of the apportionment of TMP funds for the improvement of certain deficient off-system bridges. Directs the Secretary to deduct for each fiscal year at least $10 million from FHWA administrative expenses for highway use tax evasion projects. Revises the highway bridge program. Directs the Secretary to: (1) inventory all highway bridges and tunnels, (2) establish national inspection standards for evaluating all highway bridges and tunnels for safety and serviceability, and (3) establish a training program for highway bridge and tunnel inspectors. Authorizes a state to use TMP funds to replace certain bridges and ferries that have been destroyed. Revises the highway safety improvement program. Directs the Secretary to establish requirements for regularly recurring updates and approval of state strategic highway safety plans. Requires the Secretary to issue guidance to states on establishing performance measures and targets for state highway safety improvement programs to reduce serious injuries and fatalities on highways. Revises the CMAQ program. Requires states and metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) to give priority to projects that are proven to reduce PM2.5, including diesel retrofits, in areas designated as nonattainment or maintenance for PM2.5. Requires, also, that 50% of such funds be suballocated for projects to reduce emissions within areas designated as nonattainment or maintenance for ozone, carbon monoxide, or PM2.5, including diesel retrofits. Requires each tier I MPO representing a nonattainment or maintenance area (population of more than 50,000 individuals) to develop a performance plan that describes projects that will achieve certain emission and traffic congestion reduction targets. Authorizes a state to reserve a specified amount of CMAQ program funds for: (1) the transportation enhancements, recreational trails, and safe routes to school programs, and (2) certain road improvement projects. Revises and replaces the Puerto Rico highway program with the Territorial and Puerto Rico highway program. (Effectively consolidates the programs.) Makes certain allocations for the Puerto Rico highway and territorial highway programs for resurfacing and reconstruction, highway safety improvement, transportation mobility program, preventive maintenance, and ferry boats and terminal facilities projects. Directs the Secretary to: (1) establish a national freight program to improve movement of freight on highways, including freight intermodal connectors and aerotropolis transportation systems; and (2) develop, periodically update, and post on the DOT website a national freight strategic plan. Authorizes a state to obligate its apportionment of national freight program funds for projects to improve the movement of freight on the national freight network. Directs the Secretary to designate a primary freight network consisting of 27,000 centerline miles of existing roadways most critical to the movement of freight. Requires states to develop state performance targets for freight movement on the primary freight network. Makes authorizations for the tribal transportation, federal lands transportation, and federal lands access programs for various transportation planning and highway improvement projects. Amends the Alaska highway program. Authorizes the Secretary, upon agreement with the state of Alaska, to expend federal-aid highway funds apportioned to the state for necessary reconstruction on: (1) a specified segment of the Alaska Highway, or (2) the Alaska Marine Highway System. Directs the Secretary to establish a grant program for projects of national and regional significance. Revises metropolitan transportation planning and statewide transportation planning requirements. Requires designation of an MPO for each urbanized area with a population of more than 200,000 individuals and for small urbanized areas with populations between 50,000 and 200,000 individuals. (Currently, an MPO must be designated for each urbanized area with a population of more than 50,000 individuals.) Prescribes a tier I and tier II MPO designation system based on population. Requires MPOs, in developing metropolitan transportation plans and transportation improvement programs (TIPs) for metropolitan planning areas, to use a process that establishes certain performance measures and targets for the metropolitan transportation planning of federal-aid highway projects. Requires each state, in developing a statewide transportation plan and a statewide transportation improvement program (STIP), to use similar performance measures and targets for the statewide transportation planning of federal-aid highway projects. Requires each state to incorporate the metropolitan transportation plans and TIPs for each metropolitan area into the statewide transportation plan and STIP. Declares that it is in the interest of the United States to focus the federal-aid highway program on certain national goals, including to: (1) significantly reduce traffic fatalities and serious injuries on all public roads, (2) maintain the highway infrastructure system in a state of good repair, (3) improve the efficiency of the surface transportation system, (4) improve the national freight network and support regional economic development, and (5) enhance the performance of the transportation system while protecting the natural environment. Directs the Secretary to carry out a project delivery acceleration initiative to identify, develop, and advance the use of best practices and deployment of technology and innovation to accelerate project delivery and to reduce project costs for transportation projects and programs while enhancing safety and protecting the environment. Authorizes a public authority to acquire real property that may be used for an approved surface transportation project before the completion of the environmental review process under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA) for such project. Authorizes a contracting agency (state transportation department) to award, on a competitive basis, a two-phase contract to a construction manager or general contractor for pre-construction and construction services on federal-aid highway projects. Declares that it is in the national interest to promote the use of innovative technologies and practices that increase the efficiency of construction of, improve the safety of, and extend the service life of highways and bridges. Amends NEPA to authorize a lead authority (DOT) operating administration or secretarial office to apply a categorical exclusion (that does not involve significant environmental impact) for other components of a multimodal transportation project if specified conditions are met. (A \"categorical exclusion\" is a category of actions which do not individually or cumulatively have a significant effect on the human environment and which have been found to have no such effect in procedures adopted by a federal agency in implementation of environmental regulations and for which, therefore, neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact statement is required.) Revises and makes permanent the surface transportation project delivery pilot program. Directs the Secretary to publish notice of proposed rulemaking for categorical exclusions for federal-aid highway projects that are located solely within the right-of-way of an existing highway and are intended to improve safety, alleviate congestion, or improve pavement conditions. Prescribes procedures for accelerating the project delivery decisionmaking process with respect to: (1) environmental review of projects, (2) coordination among relevant agencies in meeting project deadlines, and (3) issue resolution and referral. Directs the Secretary to establish an initiative to review and develop consistent procedures for environmental permitting and procurement requirements for DOT formula grant programs. Authorizes the Secretary to establish an alternative relocation payment demonstration program for the payment of relocation assistance to persons displaced by federally-assisted programs and projects. Directs the Secretary to compare the completion times of categorical exclusions, environmental assessments, and environmental impact statements for federal-aid highway projects over specified time periods. Makes eligible to be a federal-aid highway project the construction of long-term parking facilities for commercial motor vehicles on the NHS (Jason's Law). Revises open container requirements. Requires the Secretary to withhold 2.5% of a state's apportionment of certain federal-aid highway funds if it has not enacted or is not enforcing a law that prohibits the possession of any open alcoholic beverage container, or the consumption of such beverage, in the passenger area of any motor vehicle on a public highway. Prescribes requirements for release of the withheld funds. Amends the federal-aid highway program to modify the minimum penalties states are required to impose on motorists convicted multiple times for driving while intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol. Requires repeat offenders to have: (1) all their driving privileges suspended (currently, only a driver's license suspension) for at least one year; or (2) their unlimited driving privileges suspended for one year, with limited driving privileges permitted, subject to restrictions and limited exemptions, if an ignition interlock device is installed for at least one year on each of the motor vehicles they own or operate. Eliminates the specified current alternative. Requires the Secretary to withhold certain apportionment funds if a state has not enacted or is not enforcing a repeat intoxicated driver law. Prescribes requirements for release of the withheld funds. Revises and decreases certain penalties. Prohibits the use of convict labor in the construction of federal-aid highways unless the convicts are on parole, supervised release, or probation. Authorizes the federal share of project costs for maintaining minimum levels of retroreflectivity of highway signs or pavement markings at 100%. Makes eligible to be a federal-aid highway project the addition of electric charging stations to new or previously federally-funded fringe and corridor parking facilities. Requires states to obligate federal-aid highway funds to install diesel emission control technology on off-road or on-road diesel equipment, with an engine that does not meet EPA particulate matter emission standards, that operates for at least 80 hours over the life of a federal-aid highway project within a PM2.5 nonattainment or maintenance area. Amends the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 to provide increases in payments made by a displacing agency for: (1) relocation expenses for displaced farms, nonprofit organizations, or small businesses; and (2) replacement housing for displaced homeowners and certain other tenants. Makes $10 million available for each fiscal year for specified federal-aid highway programs (effectively consolidating such programs.) Repeals specified federal-aid highway programs. Rescinds $2.391 billion of unobligated balances of certain federal-aid highway programs for FY2012. Rescinds $3.054 billion of unobligated balances of federal-aid highway program funds apportioned to each state for FY2013. Authorizes appropriations for FY2012 and FY2013 for specified transportation research and education programs. Replaces the Surface Transportation Research Program with the Surface Transportation Research, Development, and Technology Program. Replaces the National Technology Deployment Program with the Research and Technology Development and Deployment Program. Directs the Secretary to carry out: (1) a highway research and development program, and (2) a technology and innovation deployment program. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to: (1) nonprofit institutions of higher education to establish workforce development centers, and (2) establish centers for surface transportation excellence. Repeals the International Highway Transportation Outreach Program and the Surface Transportation Environmental Cooperative Research Program. Revises the national university transportation centers grant program. Directs the Secretary to make competitive grants to eligible nonprofit institutions of higher education to establish tier I and tier II university transportation centers to advance transportation expertise and technology through education, research, and technology transfer activities. Establishes in the Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) the Bureau of Transportation Statistics (BTS). (Actually, BTS was created in 1992 under the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act [ISTEA] and later transferred to become part of RITA on February 20, 2005.) Subjects to a specified fine an owner or person in charge of a freight company that neglects, or refuses when requested by the BTS Director, to answer completely all questions relating to the company or to make available company records or statistics. Revises the intelligent transportation system (ITS) program. Authorizes the Secretary to develop and implement incentives to accelerate deployment of ITS technologies and services within all MAP-21 funding programs. Directs the Secretary to establish a competitive grant program to accelerate the deployment, operation, systems management, intermodal integration, and interoperability of the ITS program and ITS-enabled operational strategies. Specifies certain goals of the ITS program. Requires the Secretary to carry out a comprehensive program of ITS research and development, and operational tests of intelligent vehicles, intelligent infrastructure systems, and other similar activities. Directs the Secretary to develop a national ITS architecture and supporting ITS standards to promote the use of systems engineering methods in the deployment of intelligent transportation systems and technologies as a component of U.S. surface transportation systems. America Fast Forward Financing Innovation Act of 2011 - Amends the the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) to revise DOT's TIFIA program of direct loans, loan guarantees, and credit for surface transportation projects. Revises TIFIA program eligibility requirements to make a project eligible to receive credit assistance if the entity proposing a project submits a letter of interest before submission of a project application and the project meets certain creditworthiness criteria. Requires the Secretary to establish a rolling application process in which eligible projects shall receive credit on terms acceptable to the Secretary, if adequate funds are available to cover the subsidy costs of the federal credit instrument. Authorizes a project sponsor in cases where there is not adequate funding available to fund a credit instrument to elect to enter into a master credit agreement and wait until the following fiscal year to receive credit assistance. Increases from 33% to 49% the maximum amount of direct loans, loan guarantees, and credit for project costs. Requires the Secretary to: (1) determine whether the estimated balance of the HTF (other than the Mass Transit Account) will fall below $2 billion in FY2012 or $1 billion in FY2013; and (2) calculate, if either event occurs, the amount by which the obligation limitation on federal-aid highway programs for each fiscal year would have to be reduced to prevent such an occurrence, and then distribute the limitation to the states (minus any reduction)."