"3/18/2011--Public Law. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Additional Continuing Appropriations Amendments, 2011 - Amends the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (CAA of 2011) (P.L. 111-242) to extend through April 8, 2011, specified continuing appropriations for FY2011. Provides funding at a specified rate of operations for certain agricultural, conservation, and rural development programs. Eliminates specified funding for: (1) the Agricultural Research Service, (2) the Natural Resources Conservation Service, (3) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, (4) the Federal Payment to the Office of the Chief Financial Officer for the District of Columbia, (5) the International Fund for Ireland, (6) the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Brownfields Redevelopment, and (7) the Federal Railroad Administration. Eliminates specified funds made available in the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2010 for: (1) a certain grant to the National Center for Natural Products Research; (2) an agricultural pest facility in Hawaii; (3) the Congressional Hunger Fellows Program; (4) grants to the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade, and Consumer Protection, to the Vermont Agency of Agriculture, Foods, and Markets, and to the Wisconsin Department of Agriculture, Trade and Consumer Protection; (5) development of a prototype for a national carbon inventory and accounting system for forestry and agriculture; (6) the International Food Protection Training Institute; and (7) the Center for Foodborne Illness Research and Prevention. Provides funds at a specified rate of operations for: (1) the Departments of Commerce, of Justice (DOJ), of the Interior, of Agriculture, of Labor, of Health and Human Services (HHS); (2) the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); (3) the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA); (4) the Corporation for Public Broadcasting; (5) the House of Representatives for salaries and expenses, including those for officers and employees; and (6) Library of Congress salaries and expenses. Prohibits the use of certain funding made available in the CAA of 2011 for operations of: (1) the Abraham Lincoln Bicentennial Commission; or (2) the Durham Museum in Omaha, Nebraska. Rescinds specified funds made available for the Bureau of the Census. Rescinds specified unobligated balances available for the Emergency Steel, Oil, and Gas Guaranteed Loan Program Account. Provides funds at a specified rate for operations for the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund Program Account. Provides funds at a specified rate for operations for the Office of National Drug Control Policy. Provides funding at a specified rate for operations for the General Services Administration (GSA), and the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Eliminates funding for GSA construction and acquisition. Eliminates additional amounts made available in the CAA of 2010 for the Small Business Administration (SBA), salaries and expenses. Rescinds specified unobligated balances available for the U.S. Customs and Border Protection. Eliminates funding for any project under the Preserve America Program in the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009. Rescinds specified unobligated funds appropriated for the National Park Service. Bars the use of funds provided for EPA Geographic Programs. Eliminates certain funds for EPA competitive grants to communities to develop plans and demonstrate and implement projects which reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Rescinds specified unobligated balances available to the Forest Service for wildland fire management. Eliminates funding to the Department of the Navy for clean-up activities at the Treasure Island Naval Station, Hunters Point Annex. Rescinds specified funds appropriated to the Social Security Administration (SSA) for investment in information technology and telecommunications hardware and software infrastructure. Specifies certain uses and limits on or prohibition against the use of funds appropriated by this Act."