"6/3/2011--Passed House without amendment. (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) States the policy of the House of Representatives that: (1) the U.S. Armed Forces shall be used exclusively to defend and advance the national security interests of the United States; (2) the President has failed to provide Congress with a compelling rationale based upon national security interests for current U.S. military activities regarding Libya; and (3) the President shall not deploy, establish, or maintain the presence of units and members of the Armed Forces on the ground in Libya unless the purpose of the presence is to rescue a member of the Armed Forces from imminent danger. Directs the Secretaries of State and Defense and the Attorney General to transmit to the House of Representatives, not later than 14 days after the adoption of this resolution, copies of any official document, record, memo, correspondence, or other communication in the possession of each officer that was created on or after February 15, 2011, and refers or relates to: (1) consultation or communication with Congress regarding the employment or deployment of the Armed Forces for Operation Odyssey Dawn or NATO Operation Unified Protector; or (2) the War Powers Resolution and Operation Odyssey Dawn or Operation Unified Protector. Directs the President, not later than 14 days after adoption of this resolution, to transmit to the House of Representatives a report describing in detail U.S. security interests and objectives, and the activities of the Armed Forces, in Libya since March 19, 2011. Includes as elements to be described: (1) the President's justification for not seeking authorization by Congress for the use of military force; (2) political and military objectives; (3) details of the U.S. commitment, including costs and the impact on U.S. activities in Iraq and Afghanistan; (4) assessments of Libyan opposition forces and groups; (5) involvement of groups that have promoted an agenda that would negatively impact U.S. interests; (6) forms of support between and among al-Qaeda operatives, its affiliates, and supporters in Yemen, the Horn of Africa, and North Africa; and (7) contributions by Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, and other regional states in support of NATO activities in Libya. Finds that: (1) the President has not sought, and Congress has not provided, authorization for the introduction or continued involvement of the Armed Forces in Libya; and (2) Congress has the constitutional prerogative to withhold funding for any unauthorized use of the Armed Forces, including for unauthorized activities regarding Libya."