"10/26/2011--Passed House amended. Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011 - \n    Section\n    4\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes and directs the Secretary of Agriculture (USDA) (the Secretary), if Resolution Copper Mining, LLC offers to convey specified parcels of non-federal land in Gila, Yavapi, Maricopa, Coconino, Pinal, and/or Santa Cruz Counties, Arizona, that are acceptable to the Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior, to convey certain federal land in Pinal County, Arizona, to Resolution Copper. Instructs the Secretary to engage in government-to-government consultation with affected Indian tribes on issues related to the land exchange. Sets forth requirements for appraisals of the federal and non-federal land. Makes the appraisals of the land to be exchanged available for public review. Requires an appraisal prepared under this Act to include an income capitalization approach analysis of the market value of the federal land, which may be utilized, as appropriate, for determining such land's value, and to be the basis for the calculation of any value adjustment payment under section 6 of this Act. Requires the values of the land to be exchanged under this Act to be equal or equalized, as specified. Makes the federal lands available to Resolution Copper for use for mining and related activities. Requires the Secretary, if so requested by Resolution Copper, to issue a special use permit to it to carry out mineral exploration activities: (1) under the Oak Flat Withdrawal Area from existing drill pads outside the Area, if they would not disturb the surface of the area; and (2) within the Withdrawal Area (with the exception of within the Oak Flat Campground), if they are conducted from a single exploratory drill pad which is located to minimize visual and noise impacts on the Campground. Terminates such authorization to undertake such activities in the Oak Flat Withdrawal Area when the Withdrawal Area land is conveyed to Resolution Copper. Requires Resolution Copper to agree to pay, without compensation, costs that are associated with the land exchange and any environmental review document completed pursuant to this section and agreed to by the Secretary. Expresses the intent of Congress that the land exchange under this Act be completed within one year of enactment of this Act. Instructs Resolution Copper to submit a proposed mine plan of operations before starting production in commercial quantities of any valuable mineral from the federal land conveyed under this Act, with the exception of any production from exploration and mine development shafts, adits, and tunnels needed to determine the feasibility and pilot plant testing of production or to access the ore body and tailing deposition areas. Requires the Secretary, within three years of such submission, to complete preparation of an environmental review document in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), to be used as the basis for all decisions regarding any federal actions or authorizations related to the proposed mine and mine plan, including for the construction of associated power, water, and other ancillary facilities.  \n    Section\n    5\n     - \n    \n    Requires Resolution Copper, upon receipt of title to the federal land, to convey to the Secretary and Secretary of the Interior the non-federal land that was determined to be acceptable to them. Makes lands acquired by the Secretary under this section part of the National Forest within which the land is located. Adds certain of the non-federal land in Pinal County acquired by the Secretary of the Interior to the San Pedro Riparian National Conservation Area. Requires updating of the Conservation Area's management plan to reflect the management requirements of the acquired land. Requires certain of the non-federal land in Gila and Pinal Counties acquired by the Secretary of the Interior (Dripping Springs) to be managed according to the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and applicable land use plans. Adds certain of the non-federal land in Santa Cruz County acquired by the Secretary of the Interior to the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area. Instructs Resolution Copper to surrender, without compensation, the rights held by it under mining and other U.S. laws to commercially extract minerals under Apache Leap.  \n    Section\n    6\n     - \n    \n    Directs Resolution Copper to file annually with the Secretary of the Interior a report that indicates the quantity of valuable locatable minerals produced in commercial quantities from the federal land. Requires Resolution Copper to make value adjustment payments to the United States based upon locatable minerals produced from such land. Requires such Secretary to make such reports available to the state of Arizona. Prohibits anything in this section from modifying, expanding, diminishing, amending, or otherwise affecting any state law related to the imposition, application, timing, or collection of a state excise or severance tax. Requires funds paid to the United States under this section to be deposited in a special fund established in the Treasury and made available, in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts, to the Secretaries to be used to maintain, repair, and rehabilitate projects for Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management (BLM) assets.  \n    Section\n    7\n     - \n    \n    Withdraws Apache Leap and land acquired by the United States under this Act from: (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws; (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and (3) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.  \n    Section\n    8\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to manage Apache Leap so as to preserve its natural character and to protect the archaeological and cultural resources located on it. Authorizes the Secretary to issue to Resolution Copper special use permits that allow it to carry out underground activities (other than the commercial extraction of minerals) under the surface of Apache Leap that would not disturb the surface. Requires preparation of a management plan for Apache Leap. Prohibits this section's provisions from imposing additional restrictions on mining activities carried out by Resolution Copper adjacent to, or outside of, the Apache Leap area beyond those otherwise applicable to mining activities on privately owned land.  \n    Section\n    9\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary, upon request by the town of Superior, Arizona, to convey specified lands in Pinal County to the town. Requires the town to pay the fair market value for each acquired parcel of land or interest, as determined by appraisals conducted in accordance with section 4 of this Act. Requires any payment received by the Secretary from the town to be deposited in the fund established under the Sisk Act and made available, in such amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts, for the acquisition of land for addition to the National Forest System.  \n    Section\n    10\n     - \n    \n    Revokes any public land order that withdraws the federal land from appropriation or disposal under a public land law to the extent necessary to permit the disposal of such land. Withdraws the federal land or any federal interest in the non-federal land to be exchanged under section 4 of this Act, if not already withdrawn or segregated from entry and appropriation under a public land law (including mining and mineral leasing laws and the Geothermal Steam Act of 1970), from entry and appropriation without further action required by the Secretary. Terminates such withdrawal: (1) upon the completion of the land exchange, or (2) if Resolution Copper notifies the Secretary in writing that it has elected to withdraw from such exchange. Prohibits anything in this Act from interfering with, limiting, or otherwise impairing the unpatented mining claims or rights currently held by Resolution Copper on the federal land or in any way changing, diminishing, qualifying, or otherwise impacting Resolution Copper's rights and ability to conduct activities on such land under such claims and U.S. general mining laws."