"5/18/2004--Passed House amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Occupational Safety and Health Small Business Day in Court Act\n    Occupational Safety and Health Small Business Day in Court Act of 2004 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSH Act) to exempt employers from a 15-day deadline for notifying the Secretary of Labor of their intent to contest citations, notices of uncorrected violations, and proposed penalties issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), if their failure to meet such deadline results from mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission Efficiency Act\n    Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission Efficiency Act of 2004 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSH Act) to increase the membership of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC) from three to five. Requires the presence of three of such five members to constitute a quorum. Includes an individual's legal training among possible qualifications for OSHRC membership. Authorizes the President to extend for up to 365 days the term of an OSHRC member until a nominated successor is confirmed to serve by the Senate.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Occupational Safety and Health Independent Review of OSHA Citations Act\n    Occupational Safety and Health Independent Review of OSHA Citations Act of 2004 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSH Act) to revise judicial review provisions to require deference to be given to reasonable conclusions of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC), with respect to all questions of law that are subject to agency deference under governing court precedent relating to citations issued by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) against businesses for violations of the OSH Act.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Occupational Safety and Health Small Employer Access to Justice Act\n    Occupational Safety and Health Small Employer Access to Justice Act of 2004 - Amends the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (OSH Act) to provide for the award of attorney's fees and costs to certain small employers when they prevail in specified administrative or court proceedings. Requires such awards to prevailing employers if they had not more than 100 employees and a net worth of not more than $7 million at the time of: (1) the initiation of the administrative proceedings (in the case of an adversary adjudication); or (2) the filing of the action addressed in the court proceedings (in the case of judicial review of an administrative action). Provides for such awards without regard to whether the position of the Secretary of Labor or the Federal Government was substantially justified or whether special circumstances make an award unjust.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Paperwork and Regulatory Improvements Act\n    Paperwork and Regulatory Improvements Act of 2004 - Amends the Paperwork Reduction Act to require the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to review information collection conducted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to identify actions IRS can take to reduce the information collection burden imposed on small business concerns, and to include the results of such review in a specified annual report. Amends the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 to repeal specified exemptions from Paperwork Reduction Act requirements and certain other rulemaking requirements. Amends the Truth in Regulating Act of 2000 to make permanent the authority of a chairman or ranking member of a congressional committee to request the Comptroller General to perform a regulatory analysis of an economically significant rule upon agency publication. Amends the Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2001 to instruct the Director of OMB to require each agency annually to submit an estimate of the total annual costs and benefits of Federal rules and paperwork for the agency and each agency program. Requires the Director to designate at least three agencies to participate in a study on regulatory budgeting for FY 2006 and 2007. Includes the regulatory budgets of the designated agencies as an alternative budget presentation. Requires a report on the study to be included in a certain report to Congress, as well as submitted directly to specified congressional committees."