"4/1/2003--Introduced. Supplemental Appropriations Act to Support Department of Defense Operations in Iraq for Fiscal Year 2003 - Makes supplemental appropriations for FY 2003 for: (1) the Agricultural Research Service; (2) the Department of Justice; (3) the Department of State and the Broadcasting Board of Governors; (4) the Department of Defense (DOD), including the Defense Emergency Response Fund; (5) the Department of the Interior; (6) the Department of Energy; (7) bilateral economic assistance, including the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund; (8) the Department of State; (9) military assistance; (10) the Department of Homeland Security; (11) the Department of Health and Human Services; (12) the Legislative Branch; (13) the Department of Transportation; (14) the Department of Commerce and related agencies; (15) the District of Columbia; (16) the Department of Labor; (17) the Department of Education and related agencies; (18) the Department of Housing and Urban Development; and (19) liquidation of obligations of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Makes specified transfers of DOD funds for drawdown support in the war against Iraq. Repeals the Iraq Sanctions Act of 1990. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the reconstruction of Iraq should be funded to the maximum extent possible from revenues produced by Iraqi oil. Makes specified funds from this Act available to DOD to carry out military construction projects necessary to respond to or protect against acts or threatened acts of terrorism or to prosecute operations in Iraq. Columbia Orbiter Memorial Act - Directs the Secretary of the Army to construct in Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, a memorial marker honoring the seven members of the crew of the Columbia Orbiter who died on February 1, 2003, during the landing of space shuttle mission STS-107. Makes appropriations to the Secretary of Transportation for FY 2003 to: (1) reimburse the airline industry for certain increased aviation security costs; and (2) compensate air carriers for costs of strengthening flight deck doors and locks. Places specified limits on executive officer compensation for the provision by the Secretary of Transportation of war risk insurance or reinsurance for air carriers. Provides additional temporary extended unemployment compensation for displaced airline related workers."