"10/18/1990--Passed House amended. Title I: Prohibits the President from recommending for a 12-month period in 1991 continuation of a waiver of human rights and emigration requirements for nondiscriminatory treatment (most-favored-nation treatment) for China under the Trade Act of 1974 unless a specified report is submitted to the Congress stating that China has accounted for and released prisoners who dissented in Tiananmen Square on June 3, 1989, and made progress in: (1) reversing gross violations of human rights; (2) terminating martial law (including in Tibet); (3) easing restrictions on freedom of the press and on broadcasts by Voice of America; (4) terminating harassment of Chinese citizens in the United States; (5) removing obstacles to study and travel abroad for students and other citizens; (6) taking appropriate action to observe internationally recognized human rights, including an end to religious persecution there and in Tibet; and (7) adhering to the Joint Declaration on Hong Kong that was entered into between the United Kingdom and it in 1984. Requires the President, in deciding whether to recommend such extension, to take into account: (1) the economic and political effects that such extension, or its absence, may have on Hong Kong; and (2) the extent to which China has moderated its position on the accession of Taiwan to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Requires the President, if he recommends such extension, to include in a specified document to be submitted to the Congress a report on China's progress in implementing the above-mentioned measures. Title II: Expresses the sense of the Congress that U.S. nationals conducting industrial cooperation projects in China or Tibet should adhere to specified principles, including to: (1) suspend the use of merchandise manufactured by convict or forced labor; (2) seek to ensure political and religious freedom without harm to anyone's employment status; (3) ensure that methods of production do not pose a danger to project employees and the surrounding environment; (4) strive to use business enterprises that are not controlled by China; and (5) promote human rights in China. Requires the Secretary of State to forward a copy of such principles to member nations of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and encourage them to promote such principles. Requires each U.S. national to register with the Secretary of State and indicate whether he or she agrees to implement such principles. Sets forth specified reporting requirements. Declares that Federal agencies may intercede with a foreign government or national regarding export marketing activity in China or Tibet on behalf of a U.S. national subject to such reporting requirements only if the national adheres to the principles of this Act."