"2/6/1990--Passed House amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Voter Registration Procedures and Programs in States that Require Registration\n    National Voter Registration Act of 1989 - Requires each covered State to: (1) include a voter registration application for elections for Federal office as part of any motor vehicle driver's license application; (2) provide for voter registration by mail for elections for Federal office; and (3) designate State-related locations and Federal and private sector locations for voter registration for elections for Federal office. Requires each covered State to establish uniform and nondiscriminatory programs to assure that official voter registration lists are accurate and current. Sets forth the requirements of such programs. Sets forth a special procedure to enable an individual to vote when his registration to vote cannot be verified. Requires each covered State to: (1) assure that any eligible applicant is registered to vote in the election if not later than 30 days before the election the application is submitted to the State motor vehicle authority, postmarked, or accepted at the designated location; (2) notify each individual who submits a voter registration application of the approval or other disposition of the application; (3) not remove the name of an individual who is otherwise eligible to vote from the official registration list for failure to vote or any other reason except at the request of the voter, death, criminal conviction, mental incapacity, or change in residence; and (4) inform those who register pursuant to this Act of each eligibility requirement for voting and penalties provided by law for submission of a false voter registration application. Requires the Federal Election Commission (FEC) to report on the impact of this Act on the administration of elections for Federal office. States that the chief State election official shall be responsible for coordination of State functions under this Act. Provides a private right of action for an individual aggrieved by a violation of this Act. Provides for the awarding of attorney fees to the prevailing party, other than the United States. States that challenges to the eligibility of an individual to vote in an election for Federal office may be made on the day of the election only as provided by State law. Authorizes appropriations to the FEC necessary to carry out this Act.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Findings, Purposes, Criminal Penalty, and Effective Date\n    Imposes criminal penalties upon any person who: (1) intimidates, threatens, or coerces any person for registering or voting or exercising any right under this Act; or (2) deprives or defrauds the inhabitants of a State of a fair and impartially conducted election process."