"5/2/1990--Passed House amended. Superconducting Super Collider Project Authorization Act of 1990 - Establishes in the Department of Energy the Office of the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) to facilitate the management and decisionmaking of the Federal Government regarding the SSC. Requires the establishment of an SSC Project Office at the site of the SSC. Abolishes both offices two years after completion of the construction of the SSC. Authorizes the Secretary of Energy (Secretary) to enter into arrangements with persons, entities, or consortia for participation in the research and development, design, construction, or operation of the SSC. Establishes in the Treasury the Superconducting Super Collider Fund to contain unexpended balances of appropriations made for the SSC before enactment of this Act as well as State of Texas, international, and other non-Federal cash contributions received under this Act, plus appropriations under this Act. Authorizes appropriations to the Fund. Authorizes appropriations from the Fund to the Secretary for expenditures in accordance with this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to make expenditures from the Fund, as provided in appropriations Acts, for construction and associated activities, including equipment procurement and research and development. Directs the Secretary to negotiate with the State selected as the SSC site to mutually agree on a schedule for making cash and in-kind contributions (including real estate and interests in real estate) to the SSC and on the composition of the contributions. Requires a minimum aggregate of cash and in-kind contributions, with real estate and real estate interests not counted. Requires, if the Secretary terminates the SSC project, in lieu of a refund, the return to Texas of real estate and real estate interests contributed by Texas. Directs the Secretary to secure commitments for international contributions covering between 20 and 33 and one-third percent of the SSC cost. Authorizes the Secretary to accept contributions from other non-Federal sources. Directs the Secretary to try to devise creative funding mechanisms that minimize SSC construction costs and that do not require additional Federal expenditures. Sets forth SSC contract eligibility requirements for domestic and foreign firms, including certain Buy American requirements with respect to purchasing any major system or component of the SSC. Bars contracting or subcontracting with any person or enterprise domiciled or incorporated under the laws of a foreign government if that government unfairly maintains, in government procurement, a significant and persistent pattern or practice of discrimination against U.S. products or services which results in identifiable harm to U.S. businesses. Prohibits use of funds authorized under this Act for any activity not directly related to the construction of the SSC. Directs the Secretary to ensure: (1) that at least ten percent of the Federal SSC funding be made available to organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically black colleges, colleges with enrollments of over 20 percent Hispanic Americans or Native Americans, and women; and (2) in addition to that ten percent, significant participation by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and economically disadvantaged women. Prohibits the use of quotas in determining eligibility under this provision."