"10/25/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment. Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Veterans Affairs\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1990 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for: (1) the payment of compensation benefits and readjustment benefits, veterans insurance and indemnities, the loan guaranty and insurance operations, and direct loans for specially adapted housing; (2) medical care facilities, medical and prosthetic research, medical administration, miscellaneous operating expenses, and grants to the Republic of the Philippines for assistance to a medical center; and (3) general operating expenses, the Office of the Inspector General, construction projects, the parking garage revolving fund, grants for the construction of State extended care facilities, and grants for the construction of State veterans cemeteries. Makes funds available to assist the City of Sturgis, South Dakota, in improving a wastewater treatment plant used by the Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Fort Meade, South Dakota. Authorizes the transfer of funds among specified appropriations. Authorizes the use of appropriations to procure consultant services. Makes certain appropriations available for the construction of any new hospital or home. Prohibits the use of appropriations to hospitalize or examine non-beneficiaries, unless reimbursement is made at rates determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Authorizes the use of certain appropriations to pay prior year accrued obligations for certain benefits.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Housing and Urban Development\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1990 for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for: (1) housing programs, including contributions for assisted housing, renewal of expiring subsidy contracts, moderate rehabilitation program, rental rehabilitation grants, congregate services, low-income housing projects, housing counseling assistance, multi-family housing project subsidies, the emergency shelter grants program, the transitional supportive housing demonstration program, grants for supplemental assistance for facilities to assist the homeless, and housing administration funds; (2) community development grants program; (3) the urban homesteading program; (4) research and technology; (5) fair housing activities; and (6) management and administration, including the Office of the Inspector General. Limits the amounts of specified loan obligations, including guarantee commitments of the Government National Mortgage Association. Makes community development funds available for: (1) a special project for infrastructure development on Hawaiian home lands; (2) communities of Parshall and New Town, North Dakota, for municipal services in connection with properties owned by the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation Housing Authority; and (3) for West Valley City, Utah, for basic infrastructure in connection with the West Ridge Commerce Industrial Park. Authorizes the city of College Park, Maryland, to retain any categorical settlement grant funds, urban renewal grant funds, and land disposition proceeds that remain after the financial closeout of the Lakeland Urban Renewal Project and to use such funds and proceeds for the community development block grant program. Authorizes the city of Hartford, Connecticut, to retain any land disposition proceeds from the financially closed-out Sheldon-Charter Oak Urban Renewal Project and to use such proceeds for a community development block grant program. Forgives certain accrued interest and requires return of interest paid by Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in connection with certain public housing project funds. Authorizes the Seattle Housing Authority to use specified project reserves for a program of health care services for the elderly. Amends the National Housing Act to modify the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) mortgage insurance program. Amends the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriations and Transfers, Urgent Supplementals, and Correcting Enrollment Errors Act of 1989 to repeal the requirement that the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development review and report to the Congress on drug-related eviction procedures. Requires the Secretary to indemnify public housing agencies that receive certain assistance to test and abate lead-based paint. Sets aside funds for lower-income housing assistance for the Ganado Acres project in Arizona.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Independent Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1990 to the: (1) American Battle Monuments Commission; (2) Consumer Product Safety Commission; (3) Court of Veterans Appeals; (4) Department of Defense-Civil for cemeterial expenses, Army; (5) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for salaries and expenses, Office of Inspector General, research and development, abatement, control and compliance, buildings and facilities, Hazardous Substance Superfund Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund, and construction grants; (6) Executive Office of the President for the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental Quality, the National Space Council, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy; (7) Federal Emergency Management Agency for disaster relief, salaries and expenses, the Office of Inspector General, emergency management planning and assistance, the National Flood Insurance Fund, and the emergency food and shelter program; (8) General Services Administration for the Consumer Information Center; (9) Department of Health and Human Services for the Office of Consumer Affairs; (10) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) for research and development, space flight, control and data communications, construction of facilities, research and program management and the Office of Inspector General; (11) National Credit Union Administration for the obligations of the Central Liquidity Facility; (12) Interagency Council on the Homeless for salaries and expenses; (13) National Science Foundation for research and related activities, academic research facilities, the U.S. Antarctic logistical support activities, the U.S. Antarctic Program, science education activities and the Office of Inspector General; (14) Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; (15) Selective Service System; and (16) National Institute of Building Sciences. Makes funds available to NASA for the National Aerospace Plane. Makes amounts deposited in the EPA Licensing and Other Services Fund from fees and charges assessed and collected by the Administrator available to carry out the programs for which the fees and charges were made. Authorizes the Administrator to lease a portion of the Environmental Technology and Engineering Center in Edison, New Jersey, to the New Jersey Institute of Technology. Requires the NASA Administrator to establish an annual goal of at least eight percent of the total value of contracts awarded in support of authorized programs, including the space station, to be made available to small business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically Black colleges and universities and minority educational institutions. Makes grade retention provisions of law applicable to certain NASA employees who were displaced by private sector positions. Amends the Federal Credit Union Act to provide that the Community Development Credit Union revolving loan fund is subject only to the rules and regulations prescribed by the National Credit Union Administration Board.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Corporations\n    Authorizes certain corporations and agencies of HUD to make commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations, with specified exceptions. Limits, with specified exceptions, new loan or mortgage purchase commitments to the extent expressly provided in this Act. Appropriates funds as necessary for the payment of expenditures of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Fund for which other funds available to the Fund are insufficient. Requires the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to report quarterly to the Committees on Appropriations on the expected total costs to the Fund in FY 1990.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Limits travel expenditures for the agencies listed in this Act to the amounts set forth in the budget estimate, with specified exceptions. Permits the use of HUD and Selective Service System appropriations for: (1) uniforms; (2) the hiring of passenger vehicles; and (3) the employment of experts and consultants. Allows the use of HUD funds to pay for legal services and facilities provided by specified agencies. Prohibits, with specified exceptions, the use of appropriated funds: (1) beyond the current fiscal year; (2) without a voucher describing the payees and services or specific statutory authorization; (3) for transportation between the domicile and place of employment of any officer or employee; (4) for payments to recipients that do not share in the cost of conducting research not specifically solicited by the Government; (5) for consultants paid in excess of the GS-18 rate; and (6) for compensation of non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated for personnel compensation and benefits for other object classifications in the budget estimates with specified exceptions. Limits expenditures for consulting services to contracts which are a matter of public record and included in a publicly available list of: (1) contracts entered into within the past two years; and (2) contracts on which performance has not been completed. Prohibits any executive agency from expending appropriations under this Act for a contract for services unless the agency: (1) complies with the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act; and (2) requires reports prepared pursuant to such contract to disclose information about the contract and the contractor. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to: (1) provide a personal cook, chauffeur, or other personal servant to any officer or employee of any agency or department; or (2) procure automobiles with an EPA estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon. Requires FY 1990 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Limits the number of noncareer, limited term, and limited emergency appointees to the Senior Executive Service in HUD. Sets forth reductions in the funding of specified accounts and activities. Extends the authority of the Department of Veterans Affairs to operate a leave transfer program for employees through December 31, 1989. Prohibits the obligation of certain funds to any municipality that fails to adopt or enforce a policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies against individuals engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations."