"10/25/1990--Senate agreed to House amendment with amendment. Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Veterans Affairs\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 to the Department of Veterans Affairs for: (1) the Veterans Benefits Administration; (2) the Veterans Health Service and Research Administration; and (3) departmental administration, including the Office of the Inspector General. Authorizes the transfer of funds among specified appropriations. Authorizes the use of certain appropriations to pay prior year accrued obligations for certain benefits.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Housing and Urban Development\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) for: (1) housing programs including homeless assistance; (2) community planning and development; (3) research and technology; (4) fair housing activities; and (5) management and administration, including the Office of the Inspector General. Limits the amounts of specified loan obligations, including guarantee commitments of the Government National Mortgage Association. Makes funds available for the renewal of expiring low-income subsidy contracts. Makes funds available for grants to public housing agencies for use in eliminating drug-related crime in public housing projects. Makes funds available for the low-income moderate rehabilitation program to be used to assist homeless individuals. Withdraws funds previously appropriated for solar and conservation improvements. Allows the following municipalities to retain land disposition proceeds from certain financially closed-out projects not paid to HUD: (1) the City of Lebanon, Pennsylvania; (2) the City of Nanticoke, the Boroughs of Plymouth and Forty Fort, all in Pennsylvania; (3) Pittsfield, Massachusetts; (4) the Borough of East Stroudsburg, Pennsylvania; (5) the City of Lawrence, Massachusetts; (6) the City of New Haven, Connecticut; and (7) the City of Roanoke, Virginia. Requires the municipalities to use such proceeds in accordance with the community development block grant program. Cancels the indebtedness of Fairmount Heights, Maryland, and of the Eastern New Mexico Natural Gas Association, Inc. relating to public facilities loans. Forgives the repayment of a specified housing loan in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Reappropriates funds previously rescinded for a housing development grant for the Dunes East Housing project in Albany, Georgia. Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to exempt the City of West Hollywood, California, and the State of Maryland from certain restrictions on the use of rental rehabilitation funds. Directs the Secretary of HUD to approve the use by the Housing Authority of the City of Seattle, Washington, of excess residual reserve receipts from specified projects for any purpose which benefits the low-income tenants of projects owned by the Authority. Restores previously appropriated funds for the construction of low-income housing in Santa Cruz, California. Amends the National Housing Act to extend the current maximum Federal Housing Administration loan limitation for mortgage insurance from FY 1990 to FY 1991. Sets forth limitations on average employment in HUD headquarter offices. Prohibits the Secretary of HUD from requiring any public housing agency or Indian housing authority to seek competitive bids for any line of insurance when it buys such a line from a nonprofit insurance entity owned and controlled, with the Secretary's approval by public housing agencies or Indian housing authorities. Sets general requirements for approval of such an insurance entity. Prohibits the Secretary from restricting the investment of funds of any such entity that is State-regulated; but permits the Secretary to establish investment guidelines similar to State guidelines where such entities are not State-regulated. Amends the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 to revise the community development grant formula for cities and counties affected by annexation.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Independent Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 to the: (1) American Battle Monuments Commission; (2) Consumer Product Safety Commission; (3) Court of Veterans Appeals; (4) Department of Defense-Civil for cemeterial expenses, Army; (5) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) for salaries and expenses, Office of Inspector General, research and development, abatement, control and compliance, buildings and facilities, Hazardous Substance Superfund and the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund, and construction grants; (6) Executive Office of the President for the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental Quality, the National Space Council, and the Office of Science and Technology Policy; (7) Federal Emergency Management Agency for salaries and expenses, the Office of Inspector General, emergency management planning and assistance, the National Flood Insurance Fund, and the emergency food and shelter program; (8) General Services Administration for the Consumer Information Center; (9) Department of Health and Human Services for the Office of Consumer Affairs; (10) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA); (11) National Credit Union Administration for the obligations of the Central Liquidity Facility; (12) Commission on National and Community Service; (13) National Science Foundation; (14) Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation; (15) Selective Service System; and (16) Interagency Council on the Homeless. Requires the NASA Administrator and the EPA Administrator to ensure that at least eight percent of Federal funding for prime and subcontracts (including those for the space station, wastewater treatment, and leaking underground storage tanks) be available to business concerns or other organizations owned or controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, including historically Black colleges and universities and minority educational institutions, and economically disadvantaged women. Sets forth limitations on average employment in EPA and NASA headquarters. Directs the Administrator of EPA to issue a final decision on the pending application of the Sanitation Districts of Los Angeles County. Grants funds to the President for the necessary expenses of the Points of Light Foundation.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Corporations\n    Authorizes certain corporations and agencies of HUD to make commitments without regard to fiscal year limitations as necessary to carry out provisions under the Government Corporation Control Act. Allows any collections by such corporations and agencies to be used for new loan or mortgage purchase commitments to the extent provided under this Act, with specified exceptions. Makes funds available for payment of expenditures of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) Resolution Fund and for the Office of Inspector General of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Requires the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to report quarterly to the Committees on Appropriations on the FSLIC Resolution Fund.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Specifies certain uses, limitations, and prohibitions on uses of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1991 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Limits the number of non-career senior executive service appointees at HUD. Prohibits the Deparatment of Veterans Affairs from entering into long-term leases that exceed $300,000, unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs reports to the congressional Committees on Appropriations and a period of 30 days has expired following the submission of such report. Requires the Resolution Trust Corporation to report to the Congress monthly on the status of required reviews under the Federal Home Loan Bank Act."