"10/28/1990--House agreed to Senate amendment with amendment. Arizona Desert Wilderness Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Designation of Wilderness Areas to be Administered by the Bureau of Land Management\n    Designates the following lands in Arizona as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System: (1) the Mount Wilson Wilderness; (2) the Mount Tipton Wilderness; (3) the Mount Nutt Wilderness; (4) the Warm Springs Wilderness; (5) the Aubrey Peak Wilderness; (6) the East Cactus Plain Wilderness; (7) the Rawhide Mountains Wilderness; (8) the Arrastra Mountain Wilderness; (9) the Harcuvar Mountains Wilderness; (10) the Harquahala Mountains Wilderness; (11) the Big Horn Mountains Wilderness; (12) the Hummingbird Springs Wilderness; (13) the Eagletail Mountains Wilderness; (14) the Signal Mountain Wilderness; (15) the Woolsey Peak Wilderness; (16) the Sierra Estrella Wilderness; (17) the Table Top Wilderness; (18) the Coyote Mountains Wilderness; (19) the Baboquivari Peak Wilderness; (20) the Needle's Eye Wilderness; (21) the North Santa Teresa Wilderness; (22) the Fishhooks Wilderness; (23) the Dos Cabezas Mountains Wilderness; (24) the Redfield Canyon Wilderness; (25) the Gibraltar Mountain Wilderness; (26) the Swansea Wilderness; (27) the Trigo Mountain Wilderness; (28) the Muggins Mountain Wilderness; (29) the Hells Canyon Wilderness; (30) the North Maricopa Mountains Wilderness; (31) the South Maricopa Mountains Wilderness; (32) the Wabayuma Peak Wilderness; (33) the Upper Burro Creek Wilderness; (34) the Hassayampa River Canyon Wilderness; (35) the White Canyon Wilderness; (36) the Tres Alamos Wilderness; (37) the Peloncillo Mountains Wilderness; (38) the New Water Mountains Wilderness; and (39) the Aravaipa Canyon Wilderness Additions. Sets forth provisions relating to such wilderness lands with respect to: (1) no protective buffer zones; (2) wildlife and fish; (3) livestock grazing; (4) reservation of water rights by the United States; (5) wildlife management; (6) military activities; and (7) mineral exchanges. Amends the Arizona Wilderness Act of 1984 with respect to certain rights and uses over the Black Rock Wash Road which passes through the San Carlos Apache reservation. Authorizes appropriations for road maintenance. Declares that nothing in this Title shall be construed to affect the operation for flood control purposes of the Alamo Dam on the Bill Williams River. Declares that all federally managed lands in Arizona, with certain exceptions, not designated as wilderness by this Act or any previous Act, have been adequately studied for wilderness designation and are no longer subject to specified management requirements.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Designation of the Gila Box Riparian National Conservation Area\n    Establishes the Gila Box Riparian National Conservation Area. Establishes an advisory committee to assist in preparing and implementing a management plan for such Area. Requires the Secretary to report, within five years after enactment of this Act, and at least each ten years thereafter, to specified congressional committees on the: (1) implementation of this Title; (2) condition of the resources and values of the Area; and (3) progress in achieving the purposes for which such Area is established. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Designation of Wilderness Areas to be Administered by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service\n    Designates the following lands in Arizona as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System: (1) the Havasu Wilderness in the Havasu National Wildlife Refuge; (2) the Imperial Refuge Wilderness in the Imperial National Wildlife Refuge; (3) the Kofa Wilderness in the Kofa National Wildlife Refuge; and (4) the Cabeza Prieta Wilderness in the Cabeza Prieta National Wildlife Refuge. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to effect the operation for flood control purposes of federally-owned dams along the Colorado River. Declares that nothing in this Act shall be construed to preclude low-level overflights of military aircraft over designated wilderness and refuge areas. Provides that nothing in this Act shall preclude or affect continued border operations by the Immigration and Naturalization Service, the Drug Enforcement Administration, or the United States Customs Service.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Fort McDowell Indian Community Water Rights Settlement\n    Fort McDowell Indian Community Water Rights Settlement Act of 1990 - Ratifies the agreement, under specified conditions, between the United States and the Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District (SRP) dated June 3, 1935, as amended on November 26, 1935, relating to the Verde River Storage Works and the agreement among the SRP, Phelps Dodge Corporation, and the Defense Plant Corporation dated March 1, 1944, including the rights to Verde River storage, to permit the Community to more fully use its waters rights entitlement under the Kent Decree of 1910. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to contract with SRP for a certain period to use a specified amount of their joint entitlement to existing storage on the Verde River for a reregulation of the Community's water rights under the Kent Decree on a seasonal basis. Ratifies the contract between the SRP and the Roosevelt Water Conservation District (RWCD) dated October 24, 1924. Directs the Secretary to revise and execute a certain subcontract of the RWCD for agricultural water service from the Central Arizona Project (CAP) to permit the conversion of agricultural water to municipal and industrial uses. Directs the Secretary to acquire an additional specified amount of water from the following sources under specified terms and conditions for delivery to the Community: (1) CAP water permanently relinquished by the Harquahala Valley Irrigation District (HVID); and (2) CAP municipal and industrial water and CAP Indian priority water permanently relinquished by the city of Prescott, specified tribes, the Cottonwood Water Company, and the Camp Verde Water Company. Authorizes the Secretary, if needed, to acquire necessary amounts of water from all resources within Arizona at the disposal of the United States, to meet the requirements of this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to contract with the HVID for the permanent relinquishment of any portion of its rights to CAP agricultural water. Allows the Secretary to use such water with its original CAP agricultural priority or to convert it to a specified maximum acre-feet amount of CAP Indian priority water. Authorizes the Secretary to provide credit and offset repayment requirements for HVID and the Central Arizona Water Conservation District (CAWCD) as consideration for the fair market value of such water rights. Requires that any remaining HVID water acquired by the Secretary for deliverance to the Fort McDowell Indian Community pursuant to this Act shall be used only in the settlement of water rights claims of other Indian tribes having claims to the water in the Salt and Verde River system. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire land and water rights from willing sellers in the Big Chino Valley of the Verde River watersheds to replace a specified minimum acre-feet of CAP water made by one or more specified entities for assignment to the Community. Prohibits the Secretary from acquiring any such land or water rights until a study has been completed to determine what, if any, adverse affects the exercise of those rights would have on the flow or the biota of the Verde River or on the existence of Meda fulgida (spikedance) or any other threatened or endangered species. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into an agreement to reimburse the city of Prescott for a maximum specified amount advanced to the Secretary by the city for the purpose of expediting completion of the study. Authorizes the Secretary, if study results are favorable, to acquire land and water rights, and to construct diversion, collection, and conveyance facilities sufficient to deliver the water to a delivery point at Sullivan Lake Yavapai County, Arizona. Requires the Secretary to develop and implement a continuous monitoring program to ensure that groundwater pumping from the land acquired does not affect the flow or the biota of the Verde River, and to ensure that it will not jeopardize the spikedance or any other threatened or endangered species. Directs the Secretary to enter into necessary agreements to ensure that the Yavapai-Prescott Tribe will receive its share of the water to be developed. Directs the Secretary, at the request of the Tribe, to enter into and renew agreements granting it, under specified conditions, long-term grazing privileges on lands acquired by the Secretary pursuant to this Act. Authorizes the Secretary to contract to deliver replacement water to specified entities that relinquish CAP water for the benefit of the Community. Requires the Secretary to study and report to specified congressional committees on the sources and costs of the water supplies, other than those identified in this Act, that can be used to satisfy the water rights of the Yavapai-Prescott Indian Tribe and of the Yavapai-Apache Indian Community of the Camp Verde Reservation. Authorizes appropriations. Directs the Secretary to amend the CAP water delivery contract between the United States and the Community dated December 11, 1980 to: (1) extend its term; (2) provide for subsequent renewal; and (3) authorize the Community to lease the CAP water to which it is entitled to certain Arizona cities. Authorizes the Community, with the approval of the Secretary, to lease the water delivered to it for its fair market value for the term provided in the Agreement but for use only in Pima, Pinal, or Maricopa Counties. Directs the Community to establish the Fort McDowell Indian Community Development Fund to contain: (1) such appropriated funds; and (2) funds provided by Arizona under the Agreement. Outlines provisions governing use of the Fund. Directs the Secretary to grant a loan to the Community for the purpose of constructing facilities for the conveyance and delivery of water on the Fort McDowell Indian Reservation. Provides that the benefits realized by the Community's members under this Act shall constitute full and complete satisfaction of all members' present and future claims for water rights. Authorizes the Community and the Secretary on behalf of the United States, pursuant to the Agreement, to waive and release all present and future water rights claims. Directs the Secretary to carry out all necessary environmental compliance, except as specifically directed otherwise, during the implementation phase of this settlement. Precludes the Secretary from studying or considering alternatives to the Community's on-reservation agriculture development plans which will be facilitated by the settlement, or performed under the Small Reclamation Projects loan made under this Act.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    National Park System Units in Texas\n    Amends Federal law to expand the boundaries of San Antonio Missions National Historical Park, Texas, into the Proposed Boundary Extension area. Increases from $500,000 to $15,000,000 the maximum sums available for the development of essential public facilities in the Park. Establishes the Lake Meredith National Recreation Area in Texas. Requires that lands included in the Area that are necessary for the continued operation, maintenance, and replacement of the Canadian River Project facilities remain under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Reclamation. States that nothing in this Act shall be construed to affect or interfere with the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to operate Sanford Dam and Lake Meredith under this Act. Requires the Secretary of the Interior to survey the cultural resources in the immediate vicinity of the Area. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes the Amistad National Recreation Area, Texas. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to administer such area. Subjects such area's administration to specified treaties between the United States and Mexico. Requires the Secretary to survey and report to specified congressional committees on the cultural resources in the vicinity of the recreation area. Authorizes hunting and fishing in such area except in designated zones. Authorizes the Secretary to enter into agreements with any Federal agency, the State of Texas, or any political subdivision thereof for the provision of rescue, firefighting, and law enforcement services for such area. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Underground Railroad Study\n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service, to study alternatives for commemorating and interpreting the Underground Railroad (the route taken by escaping slaves before conclusion of the Civil War). Includes in such study: (1) consideration of establishing a new unit within the national park system; and (2) consideration of various appropriate designations for those routes and sites utilized by the Underground Railroad and alternative means to link such sites, including those in Canada and Mexico. Requires the Secretary, acting through the Director, to prepare and publish an interpretive handbook on the Underground Railroad in the larger context of American antebellum society (including the history of slavery and abolitionism). Directs the Secretary to establish the Underground Railroad Advisory Committee. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord Rivers Study\n    Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord Wild and Scenic Rivers Study Act - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord River segments in Massachusetts for study for potential addition to the national wild and scenic rivers system. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to establish the Sudbury, Assabet, and Concord River Study Committee to advise him in conducting the study and concerning management alternatives should some or all of such river segments be included in the system. Terminates the Committee upon the submission of the study report to the President, with respect to the river segments covered by this Act. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Private Relief Provisions\n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior, notwithstanding provisions of the public land laws of the United States, to survey and convey, all right, title, and interest of the United States to certain Alaska property to a named individual. Directs the Secretary to convey certain lands in Ada County, Idaho, to named individuals.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Camp W.G. Williams Land Exchange\n    Camp W.G. Williams Land Exchange Act of 1989 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to offer to exchange specified Federal lands for certain private lands in Utah and Salt Lake Counties, Utah. Returns certain Federal lands which are not exchanged to the public domain. Transfers certain Federal lands from the Bureau of Land Management to the Department of the Army. Directs the Department of the Army to transfer certain Federal lands to the Department of the Interior to be returned to public domain. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire and transfer certain Federal lands to the Department of the Army for addition to Camp W.G. Williams. Requires that: (1) all acquired specified lands within the exterior boundaries of Camp Williams be administered by the Department of the Army; and (2) no federally-owned lands within the camp boundaries be available for settlement, sale, location or entry under the general land laws, including the mining laws (with the exception of mineral or geothermal leasing laws). Provides that Executive Order 1922 shall be revoked only: (1) as it affects lands outside the camp boundaries; and (2) if the Secretary of the Interior accepts certification by the Secretary of the Army that such lands do not contain hazardous materials or substances.  \n    Title\n    X\n     - \n    Technical Amendments to Title V of the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988\n    Makes technical amendments to the Arizona-Idaho Conservation Act of 1988.  \n    Title\n    XI\n     - \n    Take Pride in America Program\n    Take Pride in America Act - Establishes within the Department of the Interior the Take Pride in America Program to: (1) establish a public awareness campaign to encourage responsibility toward, and promote participation in, caring for Federal, State, and local lands, facilities, and natural and cultural resources; and (2) conduct a national awards program to honor individuals and entities which, in the opinion of the Secretary of the Interior, have distinguished themselves in such activities. Sets forth administrative provisions concerning the Program. Authorizes the Secretary to use volunteers and to distribute pamphlets or other novelties to promote its purposes. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    XII\n     - \n    Civil War and Other Studies\n    Civil War Sites Study Act of 1990 - Directs the Secretary of the Interior to prepare a study of Shenandoah Valley Civil War sites in Virginia to: (1) identify and determine the relative significance of such sites; (2) assess short- and long-term threats to their integrity; and (3) provide alternatives for the preservation of such sites by Federal, State, and local governments, or other public or private entities. Includes among such alternatives the designation of such sites as units of the National Park System. Requires the Secretary to transmit such study to specified congressional committees. Establishes the Civil War Sites Advisory Commission to prepare a study of historically significant sites and structures associated with the Civil War, other than Shenandoah Valley Civil War sites. Requires the Commission to transmit such study to the Secretary and the same congressional committees. Terminates such Commission 90 days after transmittal of such report to the Congress. Directs the Secretary to undertake a complete revision of the National Park Service \"Thematic Framework\" to reflect current scholarship and research on: (1) American history and culture; (2) historic and prehistoric archaeology; and (3) architecture. Requires the Secretary to transmit the revision to specified congressional committees. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Historic Sites, Buildings, and Antiquities Act to extend, through 1995, the National Park System Advisory Board. Establishes the National Park Service Advisory Council to advise and counsel the Board. Directs the Secretary to review and report periodically to specified congressional committees on certain aspects of the National Park System. Requires the Secretary to develop specified criteria to evaluate any proposed changes to the existing boundaries of individual park units. Title XIII - Clarks Fork Wild and Scenic River Designation Act of 1990 - Amends the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act to designate a segment of the Clarks Fork River in Wyoming as a component of the national wild and scenic rivers system. Authorizes appropriations. Reserves a specified quantity of water in such river segment for certain purposes."