"9/28/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment. Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Congressional Operations\n    Senate - Appropriates funds for FY 1990 for the operations of the Senate for the following: (1) mileage of the Vice President and Senators; (2) expense allowances for Senate leadership offices; (3) representation allowances for the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate; (4) salaries and expenses for officers and employees; and (5) contingent expenses, including expenses of the United States Senate Caucus on International Narcotics Control. Authorizes the Chairman of the Majority or Minority Conference Committee of the Senate to transfer funds from the appropriation account for salaries for the Conference of the Majority and Conference of the Minority to the account within the contingent fund of the Senate for expenses of the Conferences. Authorizes the Conferences to use appropriated funds for the specialized training of professional staff. Authorizes the Senate Sergeant at Arms to deposit all moneys received as charges or commissions for telephone services into the line item for telecommunications within the appropriation for the Sergeant at Arms. Authorizes the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate to establish: (1) an Office of Senate Health Promotion; and (2) exercise classes and other health services and activities on a continuing and regular basis. Establishes the Senate Health Promotion Revolving Fund within the contingent fund of the Senate. Amends the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 1973 to authorize payment from the Senate contingent fund for postage on, and fees and charges in connection with, official mail matter sent through the mail other than under the franking privilege. Authorizes funds for capitalization purposes for the contingent fund of the Senate. Authorizes the Secretary of the Senate to enter into an agreement with the Secretary of Education to provide closed captioning of the Senate floor proceedings. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to have access to the audio and video broadcast of the Senate floor proceedings for the purpose of captioning. Authorizes the Secretary of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms to acquire goods, services, or space from Government agencies under the Economy Act. Enacts into law provisions of a Senate Resolution which establishes the positions of Chief of Staff for the Majority Leader and Chief of Staff for the Minority Leader. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1970 to authorize the Chaplain of the Senate to appoint and fix the compensation of such employees as he deems appropriate. (Current law provides for appointment of a secretary.) Requires the Senate to be considered a legislative agency and deems the Secretary of the Senate to be the head of such legislative agency for purposes of provisions relating to claims of or against the Government. Provides that regulations prescribed by the Secretary relating to administrative offset shall not become effective until they are approved by the Senate Committee on Rules and Administration. Makes available to meet any unpaid expenses incurred by the Vice President, the Majority Leader, the Minority Leader, the Majority Whip, or the Minority Whip, prior to the first day of the 101st Congress: (1) any unexpended and unobligated funds appropriated for FY 1988, which were available to such individual as an authorized expense allowance; plus (2) in case such individual was authorized to incur expenses on the last day of the 100th Congress but was not authorized to incur expenses on the first day of the 101st Congress, 25 percent of the funds appropriated for FY 1989. Establishes in the Treasury a revolving fund within the contingent fund of the Senate to be known as the Senate Office of Public Records Revolving Fund. Requires that all moneys received on and after October 1, 1989, by the Senate Office of Public Records from fees and other charges for services be deposited to the credit of such fund. Directs that such moneys be available without fiscal year limitation for disbursement by the Secretary of the Senate for use in connection with the operation of the Senate Office of Public Records. Authorizes the Secretary to transfer up to $30,000 from moneys appropriated for FY 1990 miscellaneous items to such fund.  \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    (sic) Congressional Operations\n    House of Representatives - Congressional Operations Appropriation Act, 1990 - Appropriates funds for FY 1990 for the operations of the House of Representatives for the following: (1) a payment to the estate of Claude Pepper, late a Representative from Florida; (2) mileage of Members; (3) House leadership offices; (4) Members' clerk hire; (5) committee employees; (6) studies by the Committee on the Budget; (7) contingent expenses of the House, including salaries and expenses of standing, special, and select committees; (8) allowances and expenses; (9) studies and investigations of the Committee on Appropriations; and (10) salaries and expenses of officers and employees. Allows the transfer of amounts among specified House accounts upon the approval of the Committee on Appropriations. Authorizes one additional employee for the House Democratic Caucus, the House Republican Conference, the Minority Leader, and the Chief Deputy Majority Whip. Amends the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1987 to authorize the Clerk of the House, under certain circumstances, to dispose of used equipment by donating such equipment to a State, to a local government, or to a tax exempt organization. Repeals the authorization which permits a Member of the House of Representatives to purchase his or her office equipment or furnishings upon leaving office. Makes appropriations for the following joint items: (1) contingent expenses of the Senate for the Joint Economic Committee and the Joint Committee on Printing; (2) contingent expenses of the House for the Joint Committee on Taxation; (3) the Office of the Attending Physician; (4) the Capitol Police Board for salaries and general expenses; (5) official mail costs with separate disbursements for each House; (6) salaries and expenses of the Capitol Guide Service; (7) salaries and expenses of the Special Services Office, provided that none of the funds shall be obligated until the earlier of December 1, 1989, or the date the Sergeant at Arms and Doorkeeper of the Senate and the Clerk of the House jointly report to the Appropriations Committees their recommendations concerning such office; and (8) the preparation of required statements of appropriations. Prohibits the obligation or expenditure in FY 1990 of specified sums that otherwise would have been expended according to estimates by the Congressional Budget Office from amounts appropriated under this Act or in prior years. Appropriates funds for the following congressional offices: (1) the Office of Technology Assessment for salaries and expenses; (2) the Biomedical Ethics Board and Biomedical Ethics Advisory Committee for salaries and expenses; (3) the Congressional Budget Office for salaries and expenses; (4) the Architect of the Capitol for salaries, travel, contingent expenses, the Capitol buildings and grounds, Senate office buildings, House office buildings, and the Capitol power plant; (5) the Congressional Research Service of the Library of Congress for salaries and expenses; and (6) the Government Printing Office (GPO) for congressional printing and binding. Authorizes the Architect of the Capitol to: (1) develop a pilot program to determine the economic feasibility of centralizing certain maintenance functions and to reassign employees for personal services; (2) maintain cost and productivity records for such program; (3) report to appropriate congressional committees on such program; and (4) accept donations to restore and display the statue of freedom model. Abolishes the position of Executive Assistant to the Architect of the Capitol.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Other Agencies\n    Appropriates funds for the following congressional agencies: (1) the Botanic Garden for salaries and expenses; (2) the Library of Congress for salaries and expenses, the Copyright Office, Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped, and furniture and furnishings; (3) the Architect of the Capitol for Library buildings and grounds; (4) the Copyright Royalty Tribunal for salaries and expenses; (5) GPO for the Office of Superintendent of Documents; and (6) the General Accounting Office for salaries and expenses. Makes funds available to the Library of Congress for expenses of attendance at certain meetings, of which a specified amount is set aside for the Congressional Research Service. Prohibits the Library from using appropriated funds to administer a flexible or compressed work schedule for certain managers or supervisors. Limits the number of employees which the Library may employ with appropriated funds to cover general and administrative overhead costs generated by performing reimbursable work for other agencies. Authorizes the Library to engage in specified activities in support of the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development. Requires the Library to take appropriate action to assure that no legislative branch employee whose salary is disbursed by the Library is adversely affected by alternative ways of performing the personnel/payroll processing function. Authorizes GPO expenditures to carry out programs and purposes of the GPO revolving fund during the current fiscal year.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits the use of funds provided by this Act for general maintenance and care of private vehicles, except for emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under House and Senate regulations relating to parking facilities. Prohibits the obligation of such funds beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided. Makes permanent law the rates of compensation and certain official expenses provided under this Act. Limits the expenditure of such appropriations for consulting service procurement contracts to those contracts that are a matter of public record and available for public inspection. Directs the Architect of the Capitol to develop an overall telecommunications plan for the other agencies of the legislative branch that will be compatible with current plans of the House and Senate. Authorizes legislative branch agencies to use telecommunications systems and services provided by the Architect of the Capitol, the House, or the Senate under a specified plan if such systems and services have been: (1) acquired competitively; and (2) determined to be at least equal in quality to, and not greater in cost than, the systems and services known as \"FTS2000.\" Provides for adjusting the pay of certain employees of the Architect. Requires the procurement of printing for Government publications using appropriated funds under this Act to be made through GPO, unless otherwise specified by law or this Act. Repeals the limitation on the amount GPO may spend from its revolving fund for attendance at meetings. Establishes, as a joint office of Congress, the Special Services Office to provide special services to Members of Congress, and to officers, employees, and guests of Congress. Applies provisions of Federal law governing flexible and compressed work schedules to GPO. Authorizes the House Office Building Commission to furnish preschool, educationally enriched child care for the children of Senators, officers and employees of the Senate, and employees of agencies of the legislative branch if there are places available after the admission of the children of Members, officers, employees, and support personnel of the House of Representatives. Repeals the requirement for the corporation which operates the House of Representatives Child Care Center to reimburse the contingent fund of the House. Prohibits any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States receiving funds under this Act from obligating or expending such funds unless such entity has in place a written policy to ensure that all of its work places are free from the illegal use, possession, or distribution of controlled substances by the officers and employees of such entity. Provides that the accounts under the headings \"Senate\" and \"House of Representatives\" in this and other appropriations Acts shall each be considered to be one appropriation account and one \"program, project, and activity\" for purposes of sequestration under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) or any other Act. Reduces from six to three the number of franked mails with a simplified form of address which a Member of Congress may send out in a calendar year. Excludes from such limitation any mail which relates solely to a notice of appearance or a scheduled itinerary of a Member in the area from which such Member was elected. Requires that a mass mailing by a Member be limited to two sheets of legal size paper, including any enclosure that: (1) is prepared by or for the Member who makes the mailing; or (2) contains information concerning, expresses the views of, or otherwise relates to the Member who makes the mailing. Requires a separate appropriation for the House and the Senate for franked mailings. Requires the Postmaster General: (1) to submit quarterly reports to specified congressional officers and committees which contain a tabulation of the estimated number of pieces and costs of franked mail sent that quarter and during the preceding quarters in the fiscal year, together with separate tabulations of the number of pieces and costs of such mail sent by the House and by the Senate; and (2) after the close of the second quarter of the fiscal year, to send to specified congressional officers and committees a statement of the costs of postage on, and fees and charges in connection with, mail matter sent during the preceding two quarters together with an estimate of such costs for the balance of the fiscal year. Requires the House Commission on Congressional Mailing Standards, the House Administration Committee, and the Senate Rules and Administration Committee to consider promulgating regulations to ensure that total postage costs will not exceed the amounts available for the fiscal year. Revises the prohibition against mailing franked mail within 60 days of an election to prohibit mailing franked mail that is postmarked within 60 days prior to an election. Requires that the Architect of the Capitol be appointed, for a ten-year term, by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. Establishes a Commission to recommend at least three individuals to the President for appointment as Architect. Provides authority for representation and reception expenses to the John C. Stennis Center. Appropriates funds for payment to: (1) Alison Leland, widow of Mickey Leland, late a Representative from the State of Texas; and (2) Shelia A. Smith, widow of Larkin Smith, late a Representative from the State of Mississippi."