"10/23/1990--Senate agreed to House amendment with amendment. Treasury, Postal Service and General Government Appropriations Act, 1991 \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    - Treasury Department Appropriations Act, 1991\n    Makes appropriations to the Department of the Treasury for FY 1991 for: (1) Departmental Offices; (2) the Office of the Inspector General; (3) the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center; (4) the Financial Management Service; (5) the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; (6) the U.S. Customs Service; (7) the U.S. Mint; (8) the Bureau of the Public Debt; (9) the Internal Revenue Service (IRS); (10) the U.S. Secret Service; and (11) the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. Requires the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center and the U.S. Customs Service to hire and maintain specified levels of positions. Requires the U.S. Customs Service to commence procurement of long-lead items and conduct all advanced planning required in preparation for the procurement of one additional P-3 airborne early warning (AEW) aircraft in FY 1992. Makes funds available to the IRS for tax systems modernization. Allows the transfer of funds for document matching. Prohibits funds appropriated under this title from being used for the collection of any underpayment of tax, unless collected under specified procedures.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    - Postal Service Appropriations Act, 1991\n    Makes appropriations to the Postal Service Fund for FY 1991. States that certain third-class mail rates shall not apply to specified mail advertising credit, debt, or charge cards, insurance policies, or travel arrangements, except under certain circumstances (thus eliminating subsidies for bulk third-class containing such advertising matter). Authorizes the Postal Service to forbear from the collection of any postage deficiency assessed against an organization utilizing third-class bulk rate mailers if the assessment arises from a violation of the cooperative mailing regulations and the Postal Service has made no determination that the organization knowingly or willfully violated such regulations.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Executive Office Appropriations Act, 1991\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the Executive Office of the President, for salaries and/or operating expenses of the following: (1) compensation of the President; (2) the executive residence at the White House; (3) the Office of Administration; (4) the White House Office; (5) the official residence of the Vice President; (6) the provision of special assistance to the President; (7) the Council of Economic Advisers; (8) the Office of Policy Development; (9) the National Critical Materials Council; (10) the National Security Council; (11) the Office of Management and Budget; (12) the Office of Federal Procurement Policy; (13) the Office of National Drug Control Policy; and (14) unanticipated needs. Requires the conduct of a White House Conference on Indian Education. Makes funds available for the repair of the face of the Executive Residence. Requires a minimum level of permanent full-time positions on the National Critical Materials Council. Provides for the transfer of funds from the Special Forfeiture Fund to the Department of Justice and Department of the Treasury law enforcement agencies to cover the unfunded drug-related portion of increased pay and administratively uncontrollable overtime costs in high intensity drug trafficking areas. Makes funds available for automated data processing enhancement at the El Paso Intelligence Center and for the National Commission on Measured Responses to Achieve a Drug-Free America by 1995 Authorization Act. Permits the Office of National Drug Control Policy to receive quarterly transfers from the Department of Justice assets forfeiture fund.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    - Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for salaries and expenses of the following independent agencies: (1) the Administrative Conference of the United States; (2) the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations; (3) the Committee for Purchase from the Blind and Other Severely Handicapped; (4) the Federal Election Commission; and (5) the Advisory Committee on Federal Pay. Makes funds deposited in the Federal Buildings Fund available for specified purchases of the General Services Administration (GSA), limiting the availability of such funds for certain programs, construction projects, purchases, and repairs and alterations of GSA. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) the Federal Supply Service; (2) general management and administration; (3) the Federal Property Resources Service; (4) real property relocation; (5) the Information Resources Management Service; (6) the Office of the Inspector General; and (7) allowances and office staff for former Presidents. Limits the amount of funds that may be transferred between appropriations within GSA, requiring such proposed transfers to be submitted to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees for approval. Provides for the transfer of land in Avondale, Prince Georges County, Maryland, from the Secretary of the Interior to GSA for use by the Office of Personnel Management as a Federal Executive Training Center. Provides for the transfer of property at the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center in Beltsville, Maryland, to GSA for the construction of a Federal Courthouse. Escrows amounts made available from such transfer for later use in the renovation and restoration of the Center. Directs the Secretary of the Interior to transfer to GSA approximately 14 acres of the United States Geological Survey Western Region Headquarters. Requires GSA to construct additional facilities for the Survey on this site. Authorizes agencies to make rent payments to GSA for lease space relating to expansion needs at commercial equivalent rates specified under the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949. Authorizes appropriations out of the Federal Buildings Fund. Requires the specific approval of the Congress before the obligation or expenditure of funds for the sale, excessing, surplusing, or disposal of lands in the vicinity of Norfolk Lake, Arkansas, and lands in the vicinity of Bull Shoals Lake, Arkansas, both administered by the Corps of Engineers. Authorizes the Administrator of GSA to sell the John W. McCormack Post Office and Courthouse located in Boston, Massachusetts. Directs the Administrator of General Services to provide storage and office space as necessary to establish a National Long Term Records Center in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, for the specialized storage of records by the National Archives and Records Administration. Directs the Administrator to provide pubic space in Pittsfield, Massachusetts, for a satellite facility of the New England Regional Archives. Requires the Administrator and the Archivist of the United States to make quarterly reports to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on implementing the directives concerning such facilities. Authorizes the reimbursement of travel, transportation and subsistence expenses incurred for training classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision of child care services by persons employed to provide such services for Federal agencies. Directs the Administrator to coordinate requirements for office and other space to house Government activities by utilizing assets of the Resolution Trust Corporation. Provides for the use of the fund for real property management and related activities. Directs GSA to provide the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations with a plan to ensure a balanced and equitable approach for the relocation of Federal agencies in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area by March 31, 1991. Authorizes GSA to sell, at competitive bid, the Federal building located at 500 Quarrier Street in Charleston, West Virginia, and to deposit the proceeds into the Federal Buildings Fund. Authorizes the sale of the Federal Building and United States Courthouse located at 110 South Fourth Street in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Authorizes the use of the proceeds, in addition to other specified funds, for the construction of a new building and courthouse in Minneapolis. Directs the Administrator to issue a request for proposals for the procurement of move management services within 30 days after enactment of this Act. Authorizes GSA to utilize and lease space in the Harlem International Trade Center, 125th Street, New York, New York. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the following purposes: (1) the National Archives and Records Administration; (2) the Office of Government Ethics; and (3) the Office of Personnel Management. Authorizes appropriations to establish the following positions in the National Archives and Records Administration: (1) the Director of the Center for Legislative Archives; and (2) a Specialist in Congressional History. Makes funds available for the administrative expenses of the Advisory Committee on the Records of Congress (established under this Act). Establishes the Advisory Committee on the Records of Congress to: (1) review the management and preservation of congressional records; (2) report and advise the Congress and the Archivist of the United States on such management and preservation; and (3) no later than December 31, 1991, conduct a study and report to the Congress on the effect of any records transfer outside of Washington, D.C. and the five-year plan for the management and preservation of such records. Requires the Congress, by December 31, 1995, to update the five-year plan and report to the Congress on such plan. Amends Federal law to allow health insurance reimbursements for the services performed by a nurse midwife or nurse practitioner/clinical specialist. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Federal Labor Relations Authority, the United States Tax Court, and the Office of Special Counsel.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth certain prohibitions and limitations on the use of appropriations made under this Act. Prohibits any of the funds made available under this Act from being used for any of the following: (1) for the purpose of eliminating any existing requirements for sureties on customs bonds; (2) for the funding of any activity or the payment of any Government employee for which the funding would prohibit the enforcement of a specified provision of the 1930 Tariff Act; and (3) to transfer control over the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers in Glynco, Georgia, Marana, Arizona, and Artesia, New Mexico, out of the Treasury Department. Prohibits the use of any part of an appropriation made in this Act for the payment of the salary of any officer or employee of the U.S. Postal Service who in any way interferes with another employee's ability to communicate with any member or committee of the Congress in connection with any matter pertaining to the employment of such officers or employees with the Postal Service. Prohibits, with specified exceptions, the use of any funds appropriated under this Act to pay for an abortion, or to fund any Federal health plan which provides any benefits or coverage for abortions. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act from being available to solicit bids or enter into any contracts to close or consolidate executive seminar centers for the Office of Personnel Management. Authorizes GSA to lease space for the United States Courts in Tacoma, Washington, at the site of Union Station, Tacoma, Washington. Provides authority to establish pay rates for Federal employees during FY 1991. Prohibits the use of funds to contract out positions or downgrade the position classification of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Police Force or the United States Mint Police Force. Prohibits studying the feasibility of contracting out such positions. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury to report to the House and Senate Committees on Appropriations on measures to reduce the expenditures incurred when former Presidents and their spouses travel for the purpose of speaking or making an appearance for a payment of money or any thing of value in excess of any actual and necessary travel expenses. Authorizes the United States Secret Service to accept donations of money to offset costs incurred while protecting former Presidents and their spouses when traveling for the purpose of making an appearance or speech for a payment of money or any thing of value. Prohibits the withdrawal of the designation of Front Royal, Virginia, as a U.S. Customs Service port of entry. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to transfer mail processing capabilities from the Las Cruces, New Mexico postal facility. Requires the Postal Service to recognize the rapid rate of population growth in Las Cruces and to automate such facility. Authorizes the Attorney General to utilize the Secret Service and other Federal law enforcement agencies to investigate financial institution fraud under certain conditions. Federal Employees Pay Comparability Act of 1990 -  \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Amendments Relating to Basic Pay\n    Amends Federal law to provide for pay parity between Federal employees and their non-Federal counterparts on a locality basis. Grants the President the authority to fix an alternative level of comparability payments in the event of a national emergency or serious economic conditions. Grants the President specified authorities with respect to particular recruitment and retention problems. Provides for the pay of certain senior-level positions, critical positions, administrative law judges, and contract appeals board members. Establishes special occupational pay systems. Eliminates the GS-11 threshold required for paying new appointees above the minimum rate of the appropriate grade. Authorizes advance payments for certain new appointees. Authorizes the reemployment of retirees for employment in positions for which there is exceptional difficulty in recruitment or retention. Establishes a new pay structure for the police forces of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing and the United States Mint. Increases the pay United States Trustees appointed under the bankruptcy laws. Directs the Office of Personnel Management to establish a Pay-for-Performance Labor-Management Committee to advise on the design and establishment of systems for strengthening the linkage between the performance of General Schedule employees and their pay. Increases the pay of the Director of the Census Bureau.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Amendments Relating to Awards, Allowances, Differentials, and Other Related Matters\n    Permits agencies to grant employees time off from duty as an incentive award. Increases the allowance for uniforms. Applies to Federal health care positions certain classifications and work hour provisions of Federal law pertaining to the Department of Medicare and Surgery of the Department of Veterans' Affairs. Authorizes the payment of travel or transportation expenses for pre-employment interviews and new appointees. Authorizes the payment of performance-based cash awards to Federal employees. Authorizes the payment of recruitment and relocation bonuses and retention allowances. Authorizes the President to establish staffing differentials for a General Schedule employee whose position is in GS-5 or 7, or a two-grade interval occupational series. Authorizes the payment of differentials to certain supervisory employees.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Miscellaneous Provisions\n    Authorizes the payment of interim geographic adjustments. Amends the Public Health Service Act to establish a Senior Biomedical Research Service in the Public Health Service consisting of individuals outstanding in the field of biomedical research or clinical research evaluation.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform\n    Federal Law Enforcement Pay Reform Act of 1990 - Establishes special rates of pay for law enforcement officers under the General Schedule. Establishes special pay adjustments for law enforcement officers in specified cities or metropolitan areas. Authorizes relocation pay for certain officers. Authorizes cash awards to officers for foreign language capabilities. Sets the mandatory retirement age for officers at 57 years of age or 20 years of service if then over that age. Fixes the payment of scheduled overtime for officers. Authorizes premium pay to the United States Secret Service Uniformed Division. Requires the Office of Personnel Management to report to the Congress on a plan to establish a separate pay and classification system for law enforcement officers. Amends the Presidential Protection Assistance Act of 1976 to increase expenditures for State and local law enforcement assistance. Authorizes the Internal Revenue Service to use procedures other than competitive procurement procedures to hire outside experts to support examination and litigation efforts. Specifies the appropriations for salaries and expenses of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and for the Advisory Committee on Federal Pay. Requires the Office of Personnel Management to report to the Congress on the productivity of the Federal workforce. Authorizes the approval of sick leave for purposes related to the adoption of a child in order to test the feasibility of this concept during FY 1991. Prohibits the use of funds to reduce the rate of pay of a career appointee in the Senior Executive Service upon reassignment or transfer.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth certain requirements for and prohibitions and limitations on the use of appropriations made by this Act. Prohibits any part of any funds appropriated in this or any other Act from being used to pay the salary of any officer or employee of the Government whose post of duty is in the continental United States unless such person: (1) is a citizen of the United States; (2) has filed a declaration of intention to become a citizen of the United States; (3) is a person owing allegiance to the United States; (4) is a lawfully-admitted alien from Poland, Cuba, South Vietnam, or the Baltic countries; or (5) is a South Vietnamese, Cambodian, or Laotian refugee paroled in the United States after January 1, 1975. States exceptions and provides penalties for those persons submitting false affidavits under this provision. Prohibits funds from any appropriation in the current year from being paid to a person for filling a position for which he or she has been nominated after the Senate has voted not to approve such nomination. Authorizes the use of foreign credits owed to or owned by the United States for any purpose for which appropriations are made for the current year, only when the appropriate reimbursement is made to the Treasury from the agency concerned. Prohibits funds available pursuant to this Act from being available to implement any regulation which has been disapproved by a resolution duly adopted under the laws of the United States. Prohibits any funds made available under this Act from being used to plan, implement, or administer: (1) any reduction in the number of regions, districts, or entry processing locations of the U.S. Customs Service; or (2) any consolidation or centralization of duty assessment or appraisement functions of any offices of such Service. Requires a 4.1 percent increase in Federal pay rates under the General Schedule and other statutory pay systems for FY 1991. Sets forth the conditions under which Federal agencies may procure automatic data processing equipment other than through the procurement known as FTS2000. Prohibits the obligation or expenditure of any FY 1991 appropriations by any Federal agency or instrumentality unless it has in place and administers in good faith a drug-free workplace policy. Sets forth conditions for the use of Federal grant money to finance the acquisition of goods or services in excess of $500,000. Authorizes the use of funds for the interagency funding of national security and emergency preparedness telecommunications initiatives which benefit multiple government entities. Allows the use of funds by participants in the Federal Flexiplace Project to install telephone lines and necessary equipment and pay monthly charges in any private residence or apartment. Authorizes the reimbursement of travel, transportation and subsistence expenses incurred for training classes, conferences or other meetings in connection with the provision of child care services for Federal employees. Requires Federal agencies to collect data on individual sureties used to meet bonding requirements on Federal contracts. Requires the General Accounting Office to compile such information and report to the Senate and House Appropriations Committees no later than April 1, 1992. Prohibits Federal agencies from creating Schedule C positions, positions of a confidential or policy-determining character that are excepted from the competitive service, solely or primarily to detail the employee to the White House. Directs the Secretary of Education to release New College of California, Inc., from the requirement not to mortgage or encumber specified property to enable such College to secure financing for repairs due to the earthquake activity of October 1989. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the President should take steps to ensure greater cost sharing for Operation Desert Shield by those countries that will benefit from U.S. defensive activities in the Persian Gulf. Amends postal law to authorize free mail for military personnel temporarily deployed overseas for an operational contingency in arduous circumstances, as determined by the Secretary of Defense. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the President should seek the advice and consent of the Senate to the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations. Mandates a method for making annual adjustments to Federal pay schedules during FY 1992 through 1994, limiting pay reductions. Sets forth a special rule restricting alternative levels of comparability payments in 1994. Expresses the sense of the Senate that in the event of hostilities between the United States and Iraq it shall be the policy of the United States to pursue Saddam Hussein, other Iraqi leaders, and other perpetrators as may be determined responsible to bring them to justice as war criminals."