"10/27/1990--Passed Senate amended. Small Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendments Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Authorization of Small Business Administration Programs\n    Amends the Small Business Act to authorize appropriations for specified programs through FY 1994. Authorizes transfers from the disaster loan revolving fund for the administrative expenses of the Small Business Administration (SBA).  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Amendments to the Small Business Act and Related Acts\n    \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Small Business Act\n    Amends the Small Business Act to modify the pro rata share guidelines for grant recipients in the small business development center program. Extends from 18 months to three years the period during which the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (the Administrator) may provide revolving lines of credit for export financing purposes. Conditions SBA authority to prescribe eligibility requirements for the Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development (MSC/COD) Program upon provision of a waiver of such requirements if a Prospective Participant meets specified criteria. Provides that unless the Administrator determines that one or more tribally owned business concerns have obtained or are likely to obtain a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, each firm's size shall be independently determined without regard to its affiliation with a socially and economically disadvantaged Indian tribe (or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe). Amends the Business Opportunity Development Reform Act of 1988 to extend through FY 1994 the period during which the SBA may award contracts to certain Indian tribe joint ventures. Increases from two to five the number of contracts a Program Participant may receive via such a joint venture. Amends the Small Business Act to extend through FY 1994 the period during which surety bond waivers are authorized for MSC/COD Participants. Cites circumstances under which the SBA is duty-bound to award certain Federal contracts to former MSC/COD Program Participants. Provides guidelines under which a Federal procurement activity which does not solicit small businesses shall document its reasons to the SBA. Requires the Procurement Center Representative to recommend to the procurement activity alternative procurement methods which would increase small business prime contracting opportunities. Directs the Administrator to station an additional procurement center representative at the Department of Agriculture, the Navy Sea Systems Command, and the Environmental Protection Agency. Amends the Small Business Act to revise the compliance criteria for a procurement contract offer by a small business concern that is not the actual manufacturer or processor of the product to be supplied under the contract. Amends the Small Business Computer Security and Education Act of 1984 to extend from October 1, 1990, to March 31, 1991, the SBA's authority to provide technical and managerial assistance through private sector sources.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Small Business Investment Act\n    Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to prescribe eligibility guidelines for assistance under the development company program. Sets forth loan limitations for certain small business concerns. Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to limit Small Business Administration debenture guarantees of certain small business investment companies under common control. Amends the Small Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendment Act of 1988 to extend until: (1) September 30, 1994, the Pilot Preferred Surety Bond Guarantee Program; and (2) March 1, 1994, the deadline for the Comptroller General's evaluation of the Preferred Surety Bond Guarantee Program.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Small Business Administration Management\n    Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the President to appoint the SBA Deputy Administrator, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. (Under current law, the Administrator appoints the Deputy.)  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    Demonstration Programs and Studies\n    Establishes the Small Business Technology Transfer Demonstration Program to provide small business with education, training, and technology assistance with respect to technology transfer and application through the Community College Association for Technology Transfer (CCATT) (or other appropriate organization if CCATT is not available). Requires the Administrator of the Small Business Administration to enter into a contract with such organization to develop a regional demonstration program and otherwise carry out this Act. Directs the Administrator to use the Small Business Development Centers and other available resources to the maximum extent feasible to facilitate the organization. Requires the Administrator to develop guidelines for allocation of funds to members of CCATT. Terminates this program September 30, 1993. Directs the Administrator to report on the results of the demonstration program to specified congressional committees. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1993. Directs the SBA to establish a Pilot Technology Access Program to make matching grants to a maximum of five States based on selected criteria for the purpose of increasing access by small business to: (1) on-line data base services that provide technical and business information; and (2) technical experts in a wide range of technologies. Requires the General Accounting Office to submit an evaluation report to certain congressional committees. Terminates the Program on September 30, 1995. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1995. Directs the Administrator to report to the Congress the results of: (1) a feasibility study regarding the establishment of a business cooperation system similar to the Business Cooperation Network developed by the European Economic Community; and (2) a study of the impact of electronic data interchange technology on small business concerns.  \n    Part\n    E\n     - \n    Repealers and Technical Amendments\n    Amends the Small Business Act to direct the Department of Defense to submit an annual small business procurement report to the Congress. (Currently such report is required monthly.)  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Assistance for Rural Small Business Concerns\n    Rural Small Business Enhancement Act of 1990 - Amends the Small Business Act to establish within SBA an Office of Rural Affairs (the Office) to strive to achieve an equitable distribution of SBA financial assistance for rural small business concerns. Sets forth matching requirements from non-Federal sources for SBA rural grant programs. Extends the list of services to be provided by a small business development center to include rural small business export promotion, marketing, technical and managerial assistance, and tourist trade development. Directs the SBA to compile and periodically update a catalog of Federal rural small business assistance programs. Amends the Small Business Economic Policy Act of 1980 to require the President's annual report to the Congress on the state of small business to include specific statistics divided as to urban, suburban, and rural areas. Requires the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration to convene regional rural conferences to review specified aspects of Federal rural small business programs and to transmit summaries of such conferences to the President and the Congress. Amends the Small Business Act to authorize lenders of rural small business loan applicants, until October 1, 1995, to retain one-half of the fee on certain small loans. Expresses the sense of the Congress that small business incubators can play a constructive role in rural development. Urges specified development companies licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to develop proposals for the implementation of small business incubators for startup small business in rural areas. Directs the Office of Technology Assessment to report to the Congress on the effects of deregulation on the economic vitality of rural areas. Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the SBA to: (1) make grants for tourism demonstration programs in five States conducted by small businesses in rural areas; and (2) submit a status report to the President and the Congress. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1992. Directs the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration to conduct training sessions in conjunction with the Office of Rural Affairs on the types of Federal assistance available for the development of rural small businesses engaged in tourist-related activities.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Miscellaneous Amendments\n    Amends the National Defense Authorization Act to extend for two years the role of the Government Printing Office in a certain Department of Defense program to expand participation by disadvantaged small business concerns and minority institutions of higher learning in Department of Defense contracting opportunities. Suspends a provision of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 which calls for liquidated damages for failure of a contractor to make good faith efforts to attain the goals contained in a subcontracting plan. Declares that a specified Federal Acquisition Regulation shall stipulate that the definition of architectural and engineering services includes specified surveying and mapping services."