"11/1/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment. Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Transportation\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1990 for the necessary expenses of: (1) the Office of the Secretary of Transportation, transportation planning, research, and development, and the Working Capital Fund; (2) payments to air carriers; (3) the Commission on Aviation Security and Terrorism; and (4) the Coast Guard for operating expenses, acquisition, construction, and improvements, for alteration or removal of obstructive bridges, for retired pay, reserve training, research, development, test, and evaluation, the Offshore Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, the Deepwater Port Liability Fund, and recreational boating safety assistance. Appropriates funds for the necessary expenses of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for: (1) operation, facilities and equipment, research, engineering, and development; (2) grants-in-aid for airports; (3) the Aviation Insurance Revolving Fund; and (4) the aircraft purchase loan guarantee program. Appropriates funds to the Federal Highway Administration for: (1) general operating expenses; (2) university transportation centers; (3) highway safety research and development; (4) highway-related safety grants; (5) railroad-highway crossings demonstration projects; (6) Federal-aid highways; (7) motor carrier safety; (8) the Baltimore-Washington Parkway; (9) an intermodal urban demonstration project; (10) highway safety and economic development demonstration projects; (11) a coordinated highway improvement project in the vicinity of Pontiac and East Lansing, Michigan; (12) a highway-railroad grade crossing safety demonstration project in Mineola, New York; (13) a highway widening demonstration project near King of Prussia, Pennsylvania; (14) a bridge improvement demonstration project near Jacksonville, Florida; (15) a highway widening and improvement demonstration project between Paintsville and Prestonburg, Kentucky; (16) a climbing lane safety demonstration project in Tioga County, Pennsylvania; (17) an industrial corridor safety demonstration project between Wabash and Huntington, Indiana; (18) a highway widening demonstration project in Oklahoma; (19) a highway bypass demonstration project near Jasper, Alabama; (20) a bridge demonstration project in Owensboro, Kentucky; (21) a High Occupancy Vehicle lane demonstration project in Northern Virginia; (22) an urban highway corridor demonstration project (including a bicycle transportation demonstration project) and an urban airport access safety demonstration project in southeast Michigan; (23) the construction of the Ebensburg, Pennsylvania bypass; (24) certain preliminary engineering highway demonstration projects; (25) a corridor safety improvement project in New Jersey; (26) the Nashua River Bridge and Broad Street Parkway project in New Hampshire; (27) the construction of the Corridor H segment of the Appalachian Highway System; (28) construction of a bypass around the cities of Pella and Oskaloosa, Iowa; (29) a Des Moines inner loop highway demonstration project; (30) construction of the Corridor G segment of the Appalachian Highway System; (31) the Corning bypass highway safety demonstration project; (32) the Spring Mountain highway demonstration project in Las Vegas, Nevada; (33) the Manhattan Bridge replacement demonstration project in Kansas; and (34) a highway improvement demonstration project in Junction City, Kansas. Sets a limit on direct loans from the Right-of-Way Revolving Fund. Requires the Secretary of Transportation, with respect to a State that has received development grants under the Surface Transportation Safety Act of 1982 and which participated in the Commercial Motor Carrier Safety Inspection and Weighing Demonstration Program, to approve such State's plan for the enforcement of Federal standards with respect to commercial motor vehicle safety only if such plan provides that the aggregate expenditure of State funds, exclusive of Federal funds, for commercial motor vehicle safety programs will be maintained at a specified level. Appropriates funds to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for operations and research and highway traffic safety grants. Appropriates funds to the Federal Railroad Administration for: (1) the Office of the Administrator; (2) local rail service assistance; (3) railroad safety; (4) railroad research and development; (5) the Northeast Corridor improvement program; (6) grants to the National Railroad Passenger Corporation; and (7) the settlement of promissory notes pursuant to the Regional Rail Reorganization Act of 1973. Authorizes the issuance of notes to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment of loan guarantees from railroad rehabilitation and improvement financing funds. Prohibits commitments to guarantee new loans for railroad rehabilitation and improvement during FY 1990. Makes appropriations for Conrail commuter transition assistance. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to provide a specified amount in loans to the Chicago, Missouri and Western Railroad to replace existing jointed rail with continuous welded rail between Joliet, Illinois and Granite City, Illinois. Appropriates funds to the Urban Mass Transportation Administration for: (1) administrative expenses; (2) research, training, and human resources; (3) formula grants; (4) discretionary grants; (5) the Mass Transit Capital Fund; (6) interstate transfer grants; and (7) the Washington Metro. Prohibits such funds from being used to enforce the April 25, 1989, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, \"Major Capital Investment Projects\". Appropriates funds to: (1) the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for administrative expenses, operations and maintenance; (2) the Research and Special Programs Administration (including the pipeline safety program); and (3) the Office of the Inspector General for salaries and expenses.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1990 for the necessary expenses of: (1) the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board; (2) the National Transportation Safety Board; (3) the Interstate Commerce Commission for salaries and expenses (with a limit on payments for directed rail service); (4) the Panama Canal Commission for official reception and representation expenses; (5) the Department of the Treasury for Saint Lawrence Seaway toll rebates; and (6) the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority for interest payments.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Permits the apportionment of funds appropriated for the Panama Canal Commission. Permits the FAA to provide for the expenses of primary and secondary schooling for dependents of FAA personnel stationed outside the United States when the Secretary of Transportation determines that adequate schooling is unavailable in the locality and that adequate schools are not accessible by public transportation. Prohibits the use of Panama Canal Commission appropriations unless in conformance with the Panama Canal Treaties of 1977. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds to plan or execute any program to compensate non-Federal parties intervening in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings under this Act. Prohibits appropriated funds from being available beyond the current fiscal year unless expressly so provided. Prohibits the use of funds for the planning or implementation of any change in the current Federal status of the Transportation Systems Center or of the Turner-Fairbank Highway Research Center. Limits the use of appropriated funds for consulting services to those contracts that are a matter of public record and are available for public inspection. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to distribute the obligation limitation for Federal-aid highways according to a specified formula. Sets an obligation limitation upon the amounts distributed to the States. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to: (1) provide the States with authority to prevent lapses of authorized appropriations apportioned to them for Federal-aid highways and highway safety construction; (2) redistribute funds from States which will not obligate funds to those States which are able to obligate funds; and (3) not distribute amounts authorized for administrative expenses, the Federal lands highway program, and the strategic highway research program. Prescribes guidelines under which the States may obligate certain amounts within a specified time period for Federal-aid highways, highway safety construction, and highway assistance. Limits the use of appropriated funds for salaries and expenses to 120 political appointees in the Department of Transportation. Limits expenditures for advisory committees. Conditions the use of appropriated funds for the Woodward light rail line in Detroit, Michigan, upon approval in accordance with Michigan law of a source of operating funds. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for any costs related to the Central Automated Transit System (Downtown People Mover) in Detroit, Michigan. Directs the Urban Mass Transportation Administration to publish in the Federal Register every 30 days an announcement of certain grants obligated under the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act for a national policy specifying that only a single type of visual glideslope indicator can be funded through the airport improvement program. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to permit the obligation of a certain apportionment for the State of Florida for operating expenses of the Tri-County Commuter Rail Project (in the area of Dade, Broward, and Palm Beach Counties) during each year that Interstate 95 is under reconstruction in such area. Requires the United States, with in 30 days after enactment of this Act, to convey certain real property in New York to the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for purposes of emergency response and any other purposes Administrator of the Corporation deems necessary. Declares inapplicable to the Virginia Street Bridge in Charleston, West Virginia, certain appropriations earmarked for the highway bridge replacement and rehabilitation program. Declares that funds apportioned under the Airport and Airway Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1987 for airports in Hawaii may be made available for certain primary airports in such State. Requires the Federal Aviation Administration to satisfy specified air traffic controller work force staffing requirements by September 30, 1990. Requires the Secretary of Transportation to compensate eligible airports for essential air service to the extent and in the manner provided in appropriations Acts. Requires the Secretary of Transportation to report to specified congressional committees with respect to: (1) laws and regulations permitting the use of deadly force by U.S. Coast Guard personnel during times of peace; and (2) any necessary changes to permit such personnel to use such force against suspected drug smugglers. Mandates that all airport grant letters of intent in excess of $10,000,000 be submitted for approval to certain congressional committees. Authorizes the Secretary of Transportation to transfer funds appropriated to any office of the Office of the Secretary to any other office of the Office of the Secretary upon approval by specified congressional committees. Restricts to five percent any increase or decrease in appropriation by such transfer. Amends the Surface Transportation and Uniform Relocation Assistance Act of 1987 to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to carry out a highway safety improvement demonstration project in the Village of Alsip, Illinois. Declares that the United States releases its right to reversion on certain land at the South Big Horn County Airport, Wyoming, provided such land is used as a highway rest area. Prohibits any of the funds in this Act from being available for the establishment of a vessel traffic safety fairway less than five miles wide between the Santa Barbara Traffic Separation Scheme and the San Francisco Traffic Separation Scheme. Authorizes the Administrator of the FAA to grant releases from any restrictions contained in a specified deed of conveyance under which the United States conveyed such property to Hawaii for airport purposes. Prohibits the use of such property from impeding the safety of flight operations at the Honolulu International Airport. Authorizes airports to transfer, without consideration, to the FAA instrument landing systems which have been purchased by such airports with airport improvement program grant funds. Repeals a provision of the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989, relating to the prohibition on the use of funds provided under such Act for the design and construction of certain interchanges on I-66 in Florida. Requires the Secretary of Transportation to reimburse the State of California for the Federal share of the fair market value of the right of way incorporated into specified highway construction projects. Amends the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1989 to include, for purposes of calculating FY 1990 apportionments, as well as for the subsequent years, the directional route miles of commuter rail service whenever such service has been suspended for safety reasons. Amends the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to make permanent the prohibition against smoking on scheduled airline flights. Designates a specified segment of Michigan Highway 59 in Michigan as the James G. O'Hara Memorial Highway. Limits to no more than one-fourth of one percent of the funds apportioned for FY 1990 and 1991 to the States under the Federal-aid systems programs the funds available for highway construction training, upon request by a State highway department. Requires the Secretary of Transportation to conduct a safety review of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, including the New York City Transit Authority and the Long Island Railroad and Metro-North commuter railroads. Amends the Urban Mass Transportation Act of 1964 to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to use specified mass transit funds to contract with persons to provide safety, procurement, management, and financial compliance reviews with respect to construction performed by contractors and subcontractors. Requires the Department of Transportation to report to the Congress the effect on consumers of State regulation of the rates, routes, and services of the express package industry. Declares that any lease agreement entered into between Union Pacific Railroad Company and a certain school district in Idaho with respect to the provision of recreational facilities shall not be considered an abandonment of such property by the Company. Makes certain funds available to the Coast Guard for expenses incurred responding to any oil spill. Directs the Secretary of Transportation to set aside a specified amount of funds for the Chief Joseph Scenic Highway in Wyoming. Makes funds available to the FAA for the identification of suitable toilet and waste retention technologies for future passenger car acquisitions. Makes funds available for soundproofing of private schools in a noise impact area surrounding an airport which has submitted a noise abatement plan that has not been acted on by the Secretary of Transportation. Limits the amount of funds that may be expended by the Department of Transportation for the procurement of advisory or assistance services. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the Department of Transportation should join with the State of Alaska and the Great Alaska Highways Society in planning the celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Alaska Highway.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Emergency Drug Funding\n    Chapter I - Appropriates funds for FY 1990 to the Department of Justice for: (1) salaries and expenses for carrying out efforts at National Drug Control and the President's initiative to combat violent crime; (2) legal activities (including salaries and expenses for U.S. Attorneys and the Marshals Service, support of U.S. prisoners, and assets forfeiture); (3) interagency law enforcement (including organized crime drug enforcement); (4) salaries and expenses for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Drug Enforcement Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, and the Federal Prison System; (5) the Office of Justice Programs for justice assistance; and (6) salaries and expenses for the courts of appeals, district courts, and related agencies (including defender services, fees of jurors and commissioners, court security, and the State Justice Institute). \n    Chapter\n    II - Appropriates funds for the war on drugs for FY 1990 to\n     - \n    (1) the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs; and (2) the Department of Health and Human Services' Indian Health Service for Indian health services and facilities. Chapter III\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1990 to: (1) the Department of Labor for salaries and expenses (including substance abuse employee assistance programs); (2) the Department of Health and Human Services' Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration, the Family Support Administration for anti-drug abuse activities under the community services block grant program, and the Assistant Secretary for Human Developments Services for assistance to runaway and homeless youth; (3) the Department of Education for a school improvement program; and (4) ACTION for substance abuse prevention and education activities under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973.  \n    Chapter\n    IV - Appropriates funds for FY 1990 to\n     - \n    (1) the Department of the Treasury's Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms to fight the war against armed career criminals, the U.S. Customs Service , the Air Interdiction program, the Customs Forfeiture Fund, and Internal Revenue Service; and (2) the Executive Office of the President's Office of National Drug Control Policy, and a special forfeiture fund for prison construction. Chapter V\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1990 to: (1) the Department of Veterans Affairs' Veterans Health Service and Research Administration for medical care to veterans with alcohol or drug dependence; and (2) the Department of Housing and Urban Development for payments for operation of low-income housing projects.  \n    Chapter\n    VI - Reduces and adjusts funds previously appropriated to\n     - \n    (1) the Department of Energy; and (2) the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation. Appropriates funds for FY 1990 to the Department of Health and Human Services' Health Care Financing Administration for program management. Reduces specified discretionary appropriations provided to the legislative branch to provide funds for the war on drugs. Reduces and rescinds specified appropriations to: (1) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies; (2) to the Department of the Treasury; (3) the Internal Revenue Service; (4) the General Services Administration; and (5) the Federal Property Resources Service. Chapter VII\n    Requires a specified report from the Director of National Drug Control Policy."