"10/22/1990--House agreed to Senate amendment with amendment. Chemical and Biological Warfare Elimination Act - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Measures to Prevent the Proliferation of Chemical and Biological Weapons\n    Declares that it is U.S. policy to seek multilaterally coordinated efforts with other countries to control the proliferation of chemical and biological weapons. Requires the President to use the U.S. export control laws to control the export of defense articles, defense services, goods, and technologies that he determines would assist a country in acquiring the capability to produce or use such weapons. Amends the Export Administration Act of 1979 to require a validated export license for the export of any goods or technology that the President determines would assist a country in acquiring such weapons, unless the destination of such export is a country with which the United States has an arrangement for their control. Requires the President to impose certain sanctions against: (1) foreign persons if he determines that they knowingly contributed to the efforts of a country to acquire or use chemical or biological weapons; or (2) any country that has used such weapons in violation of international law. Declares such sanctions to include: (1) denial of U.S. procurement contracts for goods or services from such foreign persons; and (2) prohibition against importation of products from such persons. Authorizes the President to waive imposition of such sanctions if he determines that it is in the national security interests of the United States.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Measures to Deter the Use of Chemical or Biological Weapons\n    Requires the President to determine whether a foreign country is using or developing chemical or biological weapons in violation of international law. Requires the President to impose certain sanctions against countries that do so. Declares such sanctions to include: (1) prohibition against arms sales and security-sensitive goods and technology; (2) prohibition of the export of U.S. goods and technology (except agricultural products); (3) import restrictions; (4) denial of foreign assistance; (5) U.S. opposition to loan or financial assistance from international and U.S. financial institutions; and (6) the suspension of diplomatic relations. Requires the President to transmit to the Congress a report regarding the use or development of chemical or biological weapons by countries in violation of international law."