"10/5/1990--Conference report filed in House. Augustus F. Hawkins Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Head Start\n    \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    Amendments to the Head Start Act\n    Head Start Expansion and Quality Improvement Act - Amends the Head Start Act to include non-English language background children among those special groups whose needs must be addressed through an administrative arrangement and appropriate funding. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994. Reserves specified amounts of Head Start funds for: (1) Indian and migrant programs; (2) training and technical assistance; (3) quality improvement activities, including Head Start staff compensation (if appropriations exceed a specified amount to protect current services); and (4) Parent-Child Centers. Directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services (the Secretary) to establish procedures to enable Head Start agencies to develop locally designed or specialized service delivery models to address local community needs. Requires the Secretary to allocate funds to maintain the level of prior year services (with consideration for inflation) before using any additional funds (due to any funding increase for the current fiscal year) to serve an increased number of children. Directs the Secretary to prepare, through the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, and submit to specified congressional committees: (1) an interim comprehensive report by July 1, 1993; and (2) a final comprehensive report by January 1, 1994. Requires such reports to contain specified types of information on Head Start programs. Revises conditions on renewed funding of Head Start agencies which receive grants. Directs the Secretary to conduct a full review of each designated Head Start agency at least once every three years to determine compliance with program and fiscal requirements. Requires that such reviews: (1) to the maximum extent practicable, be carried out by HHS employees knowledgeable about Head Start; (2) be supervised at the agency site; (3) measure compliance with specified performance standards; and (4) identify types and conditions of facilities in which the programs are located. Declares that the results of such a review shall not be sufficient alone for determining continuation or discontinuation of funding. Revises provisions relating to the designation of Head Start agencies. Specifies additional criteria to be considered in designating Head Start agencies in unserved areas. Requires Head Start agencies to involve parents of participating children in educational services in order to aid their children to attain their full potential. Revises provisions for Head Start program coordination with other agencies and programs serving the same children and families to specifically include schools subsequently serving such children and the State agency for the welfare JOBS programs. Specifies that it is the required non-Federal contributions which are to be taken into account under the formula for administrative cost limitations. Prohibits the use of Head Start funds to assist, promote, or deter union organizing. Revises a date for purposes of calculating income to determine eligibility for Head Start participation. Prohibits the Secretary from issuing or enforcing any rule or guideline that would forbid any Head Start agency from carrying out a program in its community which provides more than one year of Head Start services to children from age three to the age of compulsory school attendance in that State. Revises Head Start notice and hearing requirements to: (1) extend to cases of reductions of assistance the protections which currently apply to cases of terminations of assistance; and (2) prohibit the Secretary from prescribing any procedure that would modify the operation of specified notice and hearing requirements in the Code of Federal Regulations. Requires the Secretary to provide training for personnel serving non-English background children in Head Start programs. Establishes requirements for Head Start staff qualifications. Directs the Secretary to ensure that, by the end of FY 1994, each Head Start classroom in a center-based program is assigned one teacher who has: (1) a child development associate (CDA) credential appropriate to the age-group served; (2) a State-awarded certificate for preschool teachers that meets or exceeds CDA credential requirements; (3) an associate, baccalaureate, or advanced degree in early childhood education; or (4) a degree in a field related to early childhood education with experience in teaching preschool children and a State-awarded certificate to teach in a preschool program. Directs the Secretary, upon request, to waive such requirements for 180 days for individuals who: (1) are first employed as Head Start teachers after September 30, 1994; (2) are enrolled in a CDA program; and (3) will receive the CDA credential within 180 days after beginning such teaching. Defines a Head Start classroom as a group of children supervised and taught by two paid staff members (a teacher and a teacher's aide or two teachers) and, where possible, a volunteer. Directs the Secretary to: (1) study and report on various approaches to providing early, continuous, and comprehensive intervention to low-income or at-risk children from birth to age three and to the families of such children; (2) study and report on Head Start family day care; and (3) submit biennial reports to the appropriate congressional committees on the status of children in Head Start programs (including disabled and non-English language background children). Encourages the Secretary to provide funds for community-based cooperative research efforts to enable Head Start directors to conduct program evaluations with the assistance of qualified researchers not directly involved in program administration or project operation. Directs the Secretary to conduct a longitudinal study of the effects that participation in Head Start programs have on the development of participants and their families and the manner in which such effects are achieved. Sets forth study-related requirements for: (1) an advisory panel; (2) children and families to be studied; (3) subcontracting; (4) focus; (5) comparisons; (6) coordination; (7) an interim report; and (8) authorized appropriations for FY 1991 through 1996. Directs the Secretary to issue at least annually a specified type of poverty line to be used as a criterion of eligibility for participation in Head Start programs. Directs the Secretary to encourage Head Start agencies to provide compensation according to salary scales based on training and experience. Provides for extended Head Start services. Allows each Head Start program to provide full-working-day (i.e., not less than ten hours per day) Head Start services to any eligible child throughout the full calendar year (i.e., all days of the year other than Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays).  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    Head Start Transition Project\n    Head Start Transition Project Act - Authorizes the Secretary to pay the Federal share of three-year demonstration grants to Head Start agencies and local educational agencies (LEAs) to develop and operate Head Start transition programs that assist low-income elementary school students in kindergarten through three and their families in: (1) obtaining supportive services that build on family strength, including health, immunization, mental health, nutrition, parenting education, literacy, and social services (including substance abuse treatment, education, and prevention services); and (2) supporting the active involvement of parents in their children's education. Sets forth transition grant eligibility provisions for Head Start agencies, LEAs, cooperating agencies, and Follow Through program grantees. Sets forth grant award requirements, including special considerations. Gives priority to applicants that will operate the transition program at a school designated for a school-wide project under specified provisions of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA). Sets forth application requirements for program assurances, planning, goals, and sustenance after grant expiration. Requires each supportive services team of family service coordinators developed under such program plans to include at least one such coordinator for every 35 children. Sets forth requirements for: (1) evaluations and reports; (2) payments and Federal share (80 percent); (3) coordination with Follow Through programs; and (4) funding. Directs the Secretary to reserve specified funds under the Head Start Act for FY 1992 through 1994 to carry out this Head Start Transition Project Act under this subtitle.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Amendments to the Follow Through Act\n    Amends the Follow Through Act to provide for direct service Follow Through grant programs. Gives priority for such grants to programs in schools that: (1) are designated for schoolwide projects under ESEA; and (2) have high concentrations of children in kindergarten and primary grades who were previously enrolled in Head Start or similar quality preschool programs. Requires local programs, which are assisted by such direct services grants, to: (1) use model Follow Through approaches; and (2) provide certain comprehensive services for children directly or through referral, or through a Head Start Transition Project program, or by using any combination of these methods. Requires the Secretary of Education to: (1) not refuse financial assistance to applicants solely because they propose to carry out a Follow Through program during a period in which a school is not in regular session and/or at more than one site; and (2) provide sufficient funds to Follow Through programs to provide required services. Sets a minimum amount for each such grant if total Follow Through program funding exceeds a certain amount in any fiscal year. Allows an LEA to use a Follow Through program grant to serve all children in kindergarten through grade three in any elementary school that receives certain special needs funds and is designated for a schoolwide project under ESEA. Establishes certain application requirements for direct services grants under the Follow Through program. Provides for program improvement for Follow Through programs. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants and contracts for research to: (1) improve Follow Through approaches; (2) develop model Follow Through approaches; and (3) meet the special needs of children eligible to participate in Follow Through programs. Directs the Secretary of Education to make grants to provide: (1) technical assistance, within certain limits, to develop, implement, and expand use of model Follow Through approaches; and (2) training in conjunction with operation of Follow Through programs or other programs that adopt such approaches. Authorizes the Secretary of Education to make grants to effective Follow Through programs to act as resources in promoting similar programs. Directs the Secretary of Education to make a grant to establish a national clearinghouse on Follow Through programs, if funding exceeds a specified amount. Directs the Secretary of Education to disseminate information on Follow Through programs. Requires evaluation of specified factors, including the impact of the addition of Follow Through comprehensive services on children receiving educational services for special needs under ESEA. Authorizes appropriations for Follow Through programs for FY 1991 through 1994. Provides that, of such funds: (1) 70 percent shall be for direct services grants; and (2) 30 percent shall be for program improvement. Establishes a Federal share of 80 percent for program costs for programs receiving direct service grants, but: (1) authorizes the Secretary to approve a greater amount if necessary, as determined according to objective criteria; and (2) allows a 100 percent Federal share of approved program costs to be used by schools that receive special needs funds and are designated for school-wide projects under ESEA. Directs the Secretary of Education to facilitate the participation of Follow Through grantees in training and technical assistance activities carried out under other Federal programs that assist children in elementary schools. Directs the Secretary of Education to consult with the Secretary (of HHS) in coordinating the Follow Through program with the Head Start Transition Project.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Amendments to the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act\n    Amends the State Dependent Care Development Grants Act to authorize appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994. Allows for a waiver of the existing percentage set aside of allotments. Allows the use of State allotments for the operation of before and after school child care programs, in such a way as to enable children with inadequate financial resources to participate. Removes a restriction on the location of such program sites. Sets forth program reporting requirements for State chief executive officers.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Amendments to the Community Services Block Grant Act\n    Amends the Community Services Block Grant Act to authorize appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 to carry out: (1) community services block grant programs in general; and (2) Community Food and Nutrition Programs. Gives priority in the designation of eligible entities in unserved areas to organizations with boards that meet specified requirements. Increases the minimum State allocation under the Community Services Block Grant program if appropriations exceed a specified level. Revises provisions for applications and requirements for funding under the Community Services Block Grant program. Extends to cases of reductions in funding the current protections for terminations of funding applicable to community action agencies and migrant and seasonal farmworker organizations. Requires that low-income individuals be given an opportunity for comment on an organization's expenditure of a grant from such block grant funds by any State which received a specified type of waiver. Provides procedures for reviewing substantial reductions of funding under the Community Services Block Grant program. Authorizes the use of discretionary grants for: (1) planning and development of rural housing (including low-income rental housing) and community facilities; and (2) instructional (rather than recreational) activities for low-income youth. Requires that instructional activities be carried out on the campus of an institution of higher education. Revises the allocation of funds in the Community Food and Nutrition Program among national, State, and local programs. Directs the Secretary (of HHS) to report annually to specified congressional committees on: (1) grants under the Community Food and Nutrition Program; and (2) the Community Services Block Grants program.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Amendments to the Child Development Associate Scholarship Assistance Act of 1985\n    Amends the Child Development Associate Scholarship Assistance Act of 1985 to allow a State the option of using up to 35 percent of its funds under such Act to provide scholarship assistance to cover the costs of training individuals for the Child Development Associate credential. Changes the income eligibility requirements from 150 percent of the poverty line level to 130 percent of the lower living standard income level. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Amendments Relating to Demonstration Partnership Agreements Addressing the Needs of the Poor\n    Amends the Human Services Reauthorization Act of 1986 to establish a new demonstration grant program for programs for special populations. Directs the Secretary (of HHS), in addition to the existing grant programs for demonstration partnership agreements addressing the needs of the poor, to make such new grants to eligible entities to demonstrate innovative approaches to addressing the employment, education, and other needs of disadvantaged persons aged 14 to 25 from special populations experiencing a variety of adverse social and economic conditions. Includes opportunities for leadership development, community involvement and service, and educational success among such services. Provides for an 80 percent Federal share of the cost of such programs. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for: (1) such new demonstration grant program directed to youth from special populations; and (2) basic grants under the current program of demonstration partnership agreements addressing the needs of the poor.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Amendments to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981\n    Amends the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 to change to a program year (or forward funding) basis the funding of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), beginning such new basis in FY 1993. Authorizes appropriations to carry out LIHEAP for FY 1991 through 1994. Revises State allotments to phase out the authority to transfer funds to other programs. Adds to certification requirements for State applications, beginning in FY 1992, provision of outreach and intake functions for crisis situations and heating and cooling assistance by State and local government agencies or community-based organizations. Requires States to provide for timely and meaningful public participation in the development of the State plan. Directs the Secretary (of HHS) to establish a procedure for reviewing and investigating any complaint regarding State program compliance with Federal statutes and regulations, within 60 days after receipt of such complaint. Requires a formal written determination of compliance or noncompliance. Prescribes certain conditions under which a State may receive a waiver to use up to 25 percent of its LIHEAP allotment for low-cost residential weatherization or other energy-related home repair for low-income households. Reduces the portion of LIHEAP funds that a State may carry forward into the next fiscal year. Establishes an incentive fund program for leveraging non-Federal resources for LIHEAP. Authorizes the Secretary, beginning in FY 1992, to allocate certain amounts to provide supplementary funds to States that have acquired such resources. Provides for: (1) distribution by formula and by a State; (2) quantification; (3) annual reports; (4) State share; and (5) funding. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1992 through 1994 for such incentive program. Revises provisions for withholding of funds from States to require the Secretary to respond in writing within 60 days to matters raised in complaints of a substantial and serious nature that a State has failed to use its LIHEAP funds properly.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Amendments to the Comprehensive Child Development Centers Act\n    Amends the Comprehensive Child Development Act to authorize appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for the Comprehensive Child Development Program.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Coordinated Services for Children, Youth, and Families\n    Claude Pepper Young Americans Act of 1990 - \n    Subtitle\n    A\n     - \n    Establishment of Administration and Awarding of Grants for Programs\n    Chapter 1: Administration on Children, Youth, and Families - Establishes within the Department of HHS an Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, to be headed by a Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families (the Commissioner) appointed by the President, with Senate advice and consent. Sets forth the Commissioner's functions, including consultation and coordination with voluntary agencies and organizations and other Federal agencies or departments. Establishes a Federal Council on Children, Youth, and Families (the Council). Requires the Council to: (1) advise and assist the President on matters relating to the special needs of young individuals; (2) review, evaluate, and inventory, on a continuing basis, Federal programs, policies, and other activities affecting young individuals, and recommend appropriate changes to the President, the Secretary (of HHS), the Commissioner, and the specified congressional committees; (3) provide for public information and forums; and (4) submit interim and annual reports. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for the Council. Terminates the Council on September 30, 1995. Sets forth the Commissioner's authorized powers in administering this subtitle and carrying out specified types of assistance to independent State bodies and to the Council, research and demonstrations, information collection and dissemination, evaluations, and annual reports. Authorizes the Secretary of HHS to reserve up to ten percent of aggregate appropriations for this title in any fiscal year for salaries and expenses of the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families related to the administration of this title. Chapter 2: Grants for State and Community Programs for Children, Youth, and Families - Establishes programs of grants for State and community programs for children, youth, and families. Directs the Commissioner to make grants in each State: (1) on a formula basis, to improve State planning and coordination of services; and (2) for certain supportive services in States complying with such coordination requirements. Requires that both types of grants are to promote the availability of developmental, preventive, and remedial services to children, youth, and their families. Requires design of such services to ensure: (1) adequate and safe physical shelter; (2) high quality physical and mental health care; (3) enhanced development of children to assure that they enter school prepared and ready to learn; (4) highest quality educational opportunity; (5) effective training and apprenticeship for employment; (6) community service and productive employment opportunities; and (7) civic, cultural, and recreational activities recognizing youth as resources and promoting self-esteem and community. Directs the Secretary to make other grants to States, on a competitive basis, to establish family resource programs (including family support centers) to help families remain together and thrive through providing community based services for: (1) family and parenting skills; (2) family use of community resources, both formal and informal; (3) support networks for good parenting; and (4) linking with, but not duplicating, other community resources. Directs the Commissioner to administer programs under this chapter through the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families, with the technical assistance and cooperation of other appropriate Federal agencies. Sets forth requirements for grants under this chapter, for State plan: (1) submission; (2) revisions; (3) contents; (4) separate or joint application depending on the type of grant; and (5) approval. Requires States, in order to be eligible for planning and coordination (and supportive services) grant allotments under this chapter, to designate an independent State body, which must be composed of specified parties and authorized to conduct a range of interagency planning and coordination activities. Sets forth requirements for the program of formula grants for State coordination of services, including requirements for State plans, applications and use of such grants. Requires that State coordination and supportive services grant funds supplement but not supplant existing Federal, State, and local expenditures for the same purposes. Requires coordination of all grants under this chapter. Sets forth requirements for the program of grants for supportive services. Directs the Commissioner to make grants to a State, if it has designated an independent State body and provided for coordinated services, under an approved State plan to demonstrate successful program approaches to fill service gaps identified through State and area planning and advocacy efforts. Requires that such eligible services be designed to facilitate provision of comprehensive community based services that are efficient, coordinated, and readily available through such activities as case planning, case management, intake and assessment, and information and referral. Requires also that such eligible services serve young people in any of the following ways: (1) physical shelter for them and their families, especially in emergencies; (2) transitional living services for homeless young people; (3) physical and mental health; (4) health screening, treatment, and counseling; (5) child development for school readiness; (6) educational opportunity, especially through vocational education and dropout prevention and remediation; (7) training, apprenticeship, and employment; (8) community service and civic, cultural, and recreational activities; (9) participation in planning and managing their own lives; (10) encouraging use of community facilities and services; (11) ensuring a safe place to live for young individuals who cannot live with their biological families; and (12) preventing abuse, neglect, or exploitation of young individuals. Sets forth requirements for the program of competitive grants to States for family resource and support programs. Requires the use of such grants to develop, expand, and operate a network of local family resource and support programs in collaboration with existing health, mental health, education, employment and training, child welfare, and other social services within the State. Sets maximum and minimum limits on the amount of such a grant for the first year in which a program is operated or expanded. Limits such a grant to a three-year term. Sets forth State reporting and application requirements, criteria for grant awards, and local program requirements. Requires States to use such grants to establish local programs that: (1) implement a community planning process; (2) provide core services, outreach services, community referral services, follow-up services, and other services directly or through agreements with other local agencies; and (3) involve parents in the development, operation, and governance of the program. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for: (1) the Administration on Children, Youth, and Families; (2) grants for State coordination of services and (3) grants for supportive services. Limits to ten percent the portion of such funds for such Administration, with the remaining 90 percent earmarked for the two grant programs. Sets forth a grant allotment formula based on State population under the age of 21. Provides for minimum allotments and transfers of certain allotted funds. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for grants for family resource and support programs. Limits to ten percent the portion of supportive services grant funds or of family resource and support program grant funds that a State may use for administrative expenses. Directs the Commissioner to use one percent of total appropriations under this chapter in any fiscal year for allotments to Indian tribes and tribal organizations that submit plans meeting criteria consistent with this chapter. Sets the Federal share of all grants under this title at 80 percent of costs, with the remaining 20 percent to be paid by the State from non-Federal funds. Chapter 3: National Clearinghouse - Family Resource Act - Directs the Commissioner to establish a National Center on Family Resource and Support Programs to serve as a national information and data clearinghouse, and a training, technical assistance, and material development source for such programs. Directs the Commissioner to evaluate family resource and support programs. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994 for such Center and such evaluation.  \n    Subtitle\n    B\n     - \n    White House Conference on Children, Youth, and Families\n    1993 White House Conference on Children, Youth, and Families - Directs the President to call a White House Conference on Children, Youth, and Families in 1993. Directs the Secretary (of HHS) to plan and conduct such Conference, in cooperation with the Commissioner and other appropriate Federal agency heads. Directs the Secretary to establish an advisory committee to the Conference, including representation from the Federal Council on Children, Youth, and Families. Requires a proposed report of the Conference to include a statement of comprehensive coherent national policy on children, youth, and families, with recommendations for implementation of such policy. Requires publication and submission of the report to the State Governors, who shall submit their views of it to the Secretary. Directs the Secretary to prepare a final report on the conference, with specified inclusions, and publish and transmit such final report to the President and to the chairs of specified congressional committees. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1993 and 1994 to carry out this subtitle.  \n    Title\n    X\n     - \n    Effective Dates\n    Sets forth effective dates for the various provisions of this Act."