"10/27/1990--Conference report filed in House. Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Multilateral Economic Assistance\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the U.S. contribution to the: (1) International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World Bank); (2) International Development Association; (3) International Finance Corporation; (4) Inter-American Development Bank; (5) Inter-American Investment Corporation; (6) Asian Development Fund; (7) African Development Fund; (8) African Development Bank; (9) European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; and (10) Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Requires 25 percent of World Bank funds to be withheld from obligation until the Secretary of the Treasury reports to the Appropriations Committees on the actions the Bank has taken, and is contemplating, in support of energy, forestry conservation, and family planning activities. Limits the subscriptions to the callable capital portion of the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, the African Development Bank, and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Reduces from the amount obligated for the International Development Association the U.S. share of any loans approved (after 1989) for China for non-basic human needs. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. executive director of the Inter-American Development Bank to oppose assistance to any recipient who refuses to agree to conduct procurement using Bank funds in a manner that does not discriminate on the basis of nationality against any person interested in providing goods or services. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for international organizations and programs. Prohibits funds from being made available to the Unitd Nations Fund for Science and Technology. Earmarks specified amounts of such funds for certain international organizations and United Nations programs. Provides that such funds may be made available to the International Atomic Energy Agency only if the Secretary of State reports to the Congress that Israel is not being denied its right to participate in the Agency. Permits funds to be made available for the Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) only if the Secretary of State reports to the Congress that: (1) TFAP has been reorganized with an international steering committee and secretariat independent of the Food and Agriculture Organization; (2) TFAP's responsibilities include areas outside the forestry sector; and (3) procedures exist to ensure increased participation in TFAP plans by affected populations and individuals outside the forestry sector.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Bilateral Economic Assistance\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for agriculture, rural development, and nutrition development assistance. Earmarks specified amounts of such funds for: (1) development projects of private entities and cooperatives for dairy development; (2) the Vitamin A Deficiency Program; and (3) U.S. participation in the Associate Professional Officers Program of the international food agencies. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for population planning development assistance. Prohibits funding for coercive abortion or involuntary sterilization. Earmarks a specified percentage of funds for the Office of Population of the Agency for International Development (AID). Permits up to five percent of funds to be used for the administration of family planning assistance programs. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for health development assistance. Earmarks specified amounts of such funds for activities relating to River Blindness. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) research on, and treatment and control of, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) in developing countries (with earmarked funds for the World Health Organization's Global Program on AIDS); (2) the Child Survival Fund; (3) education and human resources development assistance (with earmarked funds for the Caribbean Law Institute, Soviet and East European research and training, and the Center for Cultural and Technical Interchange Between North and South); (4) the International Student Exchange Program (with earmarked funds for students from Hungary and Czechoslovakia); (5) private sector, environment, and development assistance (with earmarked funds for cooperative projects among the United States, Israel, and developing countries, the Cooperative Development Program, cooperative development research projects, the Central American Rural Electrification Support project, and technical assistance and training programs for Soviet and Czechoslovakian statisticians and economists; (6) science and technology development assistance; and (7) Subsaharan Africa (with earmarked funds for primary and secondary education, the participation of disadvantaged South Africans in private enterprise development, and the Southern African Development Coordination Conference (SADCC)). Requires AID to initiate three bilateral primary and secondary education projects, at least two of which shall be in Subsaharan Africa. Authorizes a specified percentage of funds to be used to increase AID organizational resources for Subsaharan Africa. Earmarks funds for micro-enterprises in developing countries. Prohibits funds from being transferred to Zaire. Earmarks specified amounts of development assistance for displaced children, Cambodian children, prostheses and vocational rehabilitation and training for civilians injured as result of civil strife and warfare, and women in development. Prohibits any development assistance funds from being made available to U.S. private and voluntary organizations (except cooperative development organizations) which obtain less than 20 percent of annual funding for international activities from sources other than the U.S. Government. Earmarks a specified amount of development assistance (in addition to AID funds) for Appropriate Technology International. Makes such organization eligible for funds made available by this Act to U.S. private and voluntary organizations. Earmarks a specified amount of development assistance for humanitarian assistance for Romania. Applies abortion funding restrictions to such assistance. Limits total loan commitments of the Private Sector Revolving Fund during FY 1991. Permits a specified amount to be made available for two projects during FY 1991. Requires Economic Support Fund monies to be made available to discharge liabilities under loan guarantees if there are not enough funds in the Revolving Fund reserve. Limits obligations for assistance during FY 1991. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) American schools and hospitals abroad; (2) international disaster assistance (with earmarked funds for children who have become orphans as the result of natural disasters); (3) the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund; (4) AID operating expenses; and (5) operating expenses of the AID Office of the Inspector General. Directs AID to station one professional at either the Consulate General in Jerusalem or the Embassy in Tel Aviv to monitor its program for the West Bank and Gaza. Prohibits the relocation of the overseas offices of the Inspector General to a U.S. location without the approval of the Inspector General. Requires the number of positions authorized for such office in Washington to be at least 251 at the end of FY 1991. Earmarks funds for the Office to carry out responsibilities with regard to assistance programs for Eastern Europe. Authorizes the Inspector General to establish a regional office in Europe to carry out such responsibilities. Limits the total commitments to guarantee loans under the housing and credit guaranty programs. Prohibits such loans from being issued or held by the Federal Financing Bank. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to extend the authority to issue housing guarantees through September 30, 1992. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the Economic Support Fund (ESF). Earmarks specified amounts of such assistance for: (1) Israel (authorizes a specified amount to be used for military purposes during the Desert Shield emergency); (2) Egypt, including an amount for the Commodity Import Program; (3) El Salvador's Special Investigative Unit, provided that the Secretary of State submits to the Appropriations Committees a plan of the El Salvadoran Government to transfer such unit from military to civilian control; (4) Jordan; (5) the West Bank and Gaza Program; (6) Cyprus; (7) Morocco; (8) tied aid credits; (9) an endowment through which nongovernmental organizations can purchase the discounted commercial debt of Mexico as part of a debt-for-development exchange; and (10) the implementation of the Antarctic Protection Act of 1990. Conditions ESF assistance to Egypt on the understanding that Egypt will undertake significant economic reforms. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the recommended levels of ESF assistance for Egypt and Israel are based on their continued participation in the Camp David Accords and upon the Egyptian-Israeli peace treaty. Extends the authorization of appropriations for certain law enforcement assistance through FY 1991. Permits a certain amount of ESF funds to be used to provide economic, administration of justice, and military and law enforcement assistance for countries in the Andean region. Requires local currencies generated from funds made available to El Salvador under this Act to be used to jointly program El Salvador colones for the purpose of retiring debt owed by the University of Central America to the Inter-American Development Bank. Prohibits ESF assistance to Zaire. Requires the President, prior to the obligation of assistance for El Salvador, to report to the Congress on the progress made by the El Salvadoran Government in settling expropriation claims of American citizens. Provides that the grant for the endowment through which organizations can purchase Mexico's debt may be made only if the nongovernmental contribution equals the amount of the grant. Prohibits the use of development assistance funds for tied aid credits. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) the International Fund for Ireland; (2) the Multilateral Assistance Initiative for the Philippines; and (3) economic assistance for Eastern Europe. Permits a certain amount of development and ESF funds to be transferred and merged with funds for the Philippines. Earmarks specified amounts of assistance for Eastern Europe for: (1) technical assistance and training; (2) housing sectors; (3) environment and energy activities; (4) activities to foster democratic pluralism; (5) the Polish-American and Hungarian-American Enterprise Funds; (6) private enterprise activities; and (7) agricultural and rural development activities. Prohibits more than 50 percent of funds provided for environment and health-related assistance for Eastern Europe from being made available for any single country. Permits a certain amount of funds made available for Eastern Europe assistance to be used for AID administrative expenses. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) the African Development Foundation; (2) the Inter-American Foundation; (3) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) (limits amounts for direct loans and total commitments to guarantee loans); (4) the Peace Corps; (5) international narcotics control; (6) the International Committee of the Red Cross and refugee assistance; (7) the U.S. Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund; and (8) anti-terrorism assistance. Earmarks specified amounts of migration and refugee assistance for: (1) refugees resettling in Israel; (2) Tibetan refugees; (3) the Thai-Cambodian border protection program; (4) the antipiracy program; (5) the Comprehensive Plan of Action; (6) the Office of Refugee Programs of the Department of State; and (7) Burmese in Burma or Thailand who are displaced as a result of civil conflict. Earmarks a specified amount of ESF and development assistance funds for the Affected Thai Village Program. Prohibits the expenditure of a certain amount of funds for international narcotics control until the Secretary of State reports to the Appropriations Committees on measures being taken to correct management deficiencies in the Bureau of International Narcotics Matters identified in the Department of State's Inspector General report. Directs the President to analyze and report to the Congress on requirements to bolster anti-narcotic efforts and assets of transshipment countries identified in the President's strategy. Prohibits migration and refugee assistance from being used to assist in the migration to any Western Hemisphere nation of any person not having a security clearance. Amends the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988 to revise the required departure period for Amerasians emigrating from Vietnam to the United States. Removes a provision that permits the issuance of visas to specified relatives of Vietnamese aliens only if the principal alien is unmarried.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Military Assistance\n    Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for: (1) international military education and training (prohibits the use of such funds for countries whose annual per capita GNP exceeds $2,349 unless such countries agree to fund transportation and living allowances of their students); and (2) the foreign military financing program. Earmarks a specified amount of funds for international military education and training for training foreign civilian and military officials in managing and administering military establishments and budgets and in creating and maintaining military judicial systems and codes of conduct. Prohibits any funds for international military education and training from being made available for Malaysia, Zaire, Liberia, Sudan, and Somalia. Earmarks specified amounts of foreign military financing for Israel and Egypt. Requires a certain amount of funds for Israel to be disbursed within 30 days of this Act's enactment or October 31, 1990, whichever is later. Provides that foreign military financing grants shall be nonrepayable. Prohibits foreign military financing funds from being made available to finance the procurement of defense articles or services or design and construction services that are not sold by the U.S. Government unless the country proposing to make such procurements has signed a grant agreement with the U.S. Government specifying the conditions under which such procurement may be financed. Limits: (1) the principal amounts of direct loans for foreign military programs; (2) the amount of foreign military financing for non-lethal assistance to Guatemala; (3) the amount of foreign military financing for the procurement of defense articles and services not sold by the U.S. Government for countries other than Israel, Egypt, or countries for which assistance was justified in the FY 1989 congressional presentation for security assistance programs; (4) assistance for Haiti to non-lethal items to be available only through congressional notification procedures; (5) the amount of funds for administering military assistance and sales; and (6) the amount of foreign military financing for Portugal. Earmarks amounts of foreign military financing for Morocco, Greece, and Turkey. Makes available a specified amount of funds on a grant basis for Greece if Turkey receives funds through grants. Requires uncommitted funds previously obligated for the Philippines to be used only to finance sales under the Arms Export Control Act. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to waive a requirement that net proceeds from the sale of defense articles delivered to a country before 1985 (currently, 1975) be paid to the United States. Prohibits any foreign military financing for Zaire, Sudan, Liberia, or Somalia. Directs the Department of Defense, as requested by the Defense Security Assistance Agency, to conduct audits of private firms whose contracts are made directly with foreign governments and are financed under this title. Makes certain funds available for foreign military sales debt reform under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1988 available only after October 1, 1991. Directs the Secretary of Defense to issue notes to the Secretary of the Treasury to finance activities when the Guaranty Reserve is insufficient. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for peacekeeping operations. Limits obligations for purposes of the Special Defense Acquisition Fund.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Export Assistance\n    Authorizes the Export-Import Bank to make expenditures within the limit of funds and borrowing authority and to make any necessary contracts and commitments. Prohibits the use of Bank funds for nuclear exports to a non-nuclear weapon state. Limits, during FY 1991: (1) direct loans; (2) commitments to guarantee loans; and (3) administrative expenses of the Bank. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for tied aid grants and interest subsidy payments, subject to certain limitations and congressional notification procedures. Makes appropriations for FY 1991 for the Trade and Development Program. Limits total commitments to guarantee loans for Central America and Poland under the Trade Credit Insurance Program. Extends the deadline for entering into such commitments to the end of FY 1991. Authorizes such guarantees to be available for medium-term guarantees and insurance extended by the Export-Import Bank.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits the use of funds appropriated in this Act (other than funds appropriated for international organizations and programs) for any water or related land resource project which has not met specified standards and criteria for such projects proposed for construction in the United States. Limits the percentage of appropriations, with specified exceptions, that may be obligated during the last month of availability. Prohibits using certain funds appropriated or made available pursuant to this Act for: (1) retirement pay for any person serving in the armed forces of any recipient country; (2) making payments on procurement contracts which do not authorize the termination of such contract for the convenience of the United States; or (3) paying any assessments, arrearages, or dues of any member of the United Nations. Prohibits using any of the funds contained in title II of this Act to carry out the transfer of funds to international or multilateral lending organizations. Limits the amounts of funds made available under this Act to be used for: (1) official residence expenses, entertainment expenses, and representation allowances of AID; (2) entertainment expenses and representation allowances for foreign military financing programs, the Inter-American Foundation, and the Trade and Development Program; and (3) entertainment expenses for international military education and training programs and the Peace Corps. Prohibits the use of funds made available under this Act (other than funds for international organizations and programs) to finance the export of nuclear equipment, fuel, or technology. Prohibits the use of funds made available under this Act to: (1) assist any foreign government in repressing the legitimate rights of its population; (2) finance assistance or reparations to Angola, Cambodia, Cuba, Iraq, Libya, Vietnam, Iran, or Syria (including assistance provided by the Export-Import Bank or its agents); or (3) finance assistance to any country whose elected head of government is deposed by military coup. Prohibits obligating funds made available under this Act under an appropriation account to which they were not appropriated, unless the President provides a written policy justification to the Appropriations Committees. Continues the availability of: (1) certain AID funds, subject to limitations, and provided the Appropriations Committees are notified; and (2) funds for arms credit sales, provided such committees are notified. Prohibits appropriations contained in this Act from remaining available after expiration of the current fiscal year, except as provided in this Act. Prohibits the use of funds made available under this Act to: (1) be used for publicity or propaganda purposes within the United States; (2) assist a country in default for more than a year on a U.S. loan under a program for which funds are appropriated under this Act (exempts from such prohibition funds for Nicaragua and for narcotics-related assistance for Colombia, Bolivia, and Peru); (3) be made available to any international financial institution whose U.S. representative cannot obtain the amounts and names of borrowers for all loans of such institution; (4) be made available for any such institution whose U.S. representative cannot obtain any document developed by or in the possession of the management, unless such representative certifies to the Appropriations Committees that such document's confidentiality is essential to the institution's operation. Prohibits the use of funds made available under this Act for direct assistance, the Export-Import Bank, and OPIC to finance any loan or other assistance to establish or expand production of any commodity for export by a foreign country if such commodity is likely to be in surplus on world markets and will cause substantial injury to U.S. producers of a similar or competing commodity. Exempts the Export-Import Bank from such prohibition if the Bank determines that the benefits to industry and employment in the United States are likely to outweigh the injury to such producers. Prohibits development assistance from being available for any testing or breeding feasibility study, variety improvement or introduction, consultancy, publication, conference, or training in connection with the growth or production in a foreign country of an agricultural commodity for export that would compete with a similar U.S. commodity. Exempts from such prohibition: (1) activities to increase food security in developing countries where such activities will not have a significant impact in the export of U.S. agricultural commodities; or (2) research activities to benefit American producers. Prohibits the use of AID funds provided under this Act, other than specified funds to carry out the Caribbean Basin Initiative, for: (1) the procurement of feasibility studies, or project profiles of potential investment in, the manufacture of specified import-sensitive articles; or (2) the establishment of facilities designed to manufacture such articles. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. executive directors of specified international financial institutions to oppose assistance for the production or extraction of any commodity or mineral for export if it is in surplus on world markets and if the assistance will cause substantial injury to U.S. producers of a similar or competing commodity. Sets forth congressional notification procedures for the obligation and reprogramming of specified funds made available under this Act. Limits expenditures for consulting services through procurement contracts. Prohibits using funds appropriated under this Act to lobby for abortion. Prohibits any of the international organizations and programs funds from being available for the U.S. proportionate share of any programs for the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), Libya, Iran, or, at the discretion of the President, Communist countries to which foreign assistance is prohibited. Prohibits the United States from making a contribution to the United Nations or any of its affiliated agencies if such an agency grants full membership to any organization that does not have the internationally recognized attributes of statehood. Directs the Secretary of State to report annually to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on the voting practices of governments represented at the United Nations and the responsiveness of such governments to U.S. policy. Repeals provisions of specified Acts concerning such voting practices. Authorizes Israel to use any loan made available under the Arms Export Control Act for which repayment is forgiven before using any other loan made available under such Act. Prohibits U.S. employees from recognizing or negotiating with the PLO so long as the PLO does not recognize Israel's right to exist, does not accept Security Council Resolutions 242 and 338, and does not renounce the use of terrorism. Declares that it is U.S. policy that economic support fund assistance for Israel shall not be less than the annual debt repayment from Israel to the United States. Limits the amount of military assistance for El Salvador for FY 1991. Prohibits the provision of such assistance if the President reports to the Congress that: (1) the El Salvadoran Government has declined to participate in negotiations for a permanent settlement and cease-fire to the armed conflict; (2) the El Salvadoran Government has failed to support an active role for the United Nations Secretary General in mediating such settlement; (3) the El Salvadoran Government has rejected a specified settlement plan; (4) the El Salvadoran Government has failed to conduct an investigation into, and prosecution of those responsible for, the murders at the University of Central America; (5) the El Salvadoran military and security forces are engaging in violent acts against civilians or are failing to control such activities by elements subject to their control; or (6) the El Salvadoran Government has failed to seek and encourage a law enforcement service from outside El Salvador to monitor El Salvadoran investigators in their investigation into the murders at the University of Central America. Provides for the resumption of such assistance pursuant to a law enacted by the Congress. Withholds 50 percent of military assistance allocated for FY 1991. Releases such assistance only if: (1) the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front has declined to participate in settlement negotiations or has failed to support the Secretary General's role in mediating such settlement; (2) the FMLN has rejected a specified settlement plan; (3) the survival of the El Salvadoran Government is being jeopardized by FMLN actions; (4) proof exists that the FMLN is continuing to acquire significant shipments of lethal military assistance from outside El Salvador; or (5) the FMLN is engaging in violent acts against civilians or is failing to control such activities by elements subject to its control. Prohibits U.S. assistance to El Salvador if the elected head of the government is deposed by military coup or decree. Provides for the resumption of such assistance pursuant to a law enacted by the Congress. Establishes the Demobilization and Transition Fund to assist in monitoring a settlement of the conflict and in demobilizing combatants in such conflict and aiding their transition to peaceful pursuits. Makes amounts in the Fund available only if the President notifies the Congress that a permanent settlement of the conflict has been reached. Transfers withheld military assistance to the Fund on the date of such notification or on September 30, 1991, if no notification has occurred. Authorizes the delivery of U.S. military assistance to the El Salvadoran armed forces only with the prior approval of the elected president of El Salvador. Directs the Secretary of State, through agreement with the National Endowment of Democracy of other qualified organizations, to establish a program to strengthen democratic political and legal institutions in El Salvador. Makes available economic support fund assistance for such program. Earmarks a specified amount for elections monitoring. Requires congressional notification prior to making funds available for military aircraft in Central America. Directs the Secretary to notify specified congressional committees whenever helicopters or military aircraft are provided to Central American countries by any foreign country. Expresses the policy of the United States that sustainable economic growth must be predicated on sustainable use of natural resources. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct U.S. executive directors of the multilateral development banks to promote programs to address global climate change. Requires the AID Administrator to issue guidance to all AID bureaus detailing the elements of the Global Warming Initiative to: (1) emphasize the need to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and to accelerate sustainable development strategies; and (2) encourage mission directors to incorporate the Initiative in developing country programs. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used for any project that would result in a significant loss of tropical forests or involve industrial timber extraction in primary tropical forest areas. Permits funds to be used for: (1) tropical forestry and energy programs to reduce greenhouse gases in key countries in which deforestation and energy policy would contribute to global warming; and (2) personnel expenses related to AID environmental and energy sectors. Makes available a specified amount of funds for environment and energy activities, including funds earmarked for: (1) biological diversity activities; (2) the Global Warming Initiative; (3) elephant conservation and preservation; and (4) the AID Office of Energy. Makes arms sales funds available to support conservation and biological diversity programs in African countries. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to authorize the President to transfer non-lethal excess defense articles and small arms to friendly countries and international and private and voluntary organizations. Makes such transfers subject to specified existing transfer limitations. Permits the transfer of such articles without charge on a space available basis. Waives a requirement for reimbursement to the United States for such articles or the transportation of such articles. Prohibits the transfer of such articles without notification of the Appropriations Committees. Prohibits development assistance funds from being used for biomedical research concerning abortion or involuntary sterilization. Reaffirms the congressional commitment to population development assistance and the need for informed voluntary family planning. Earmarks a specified amount of development and ESF assistance for humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. Requires an equitable portion of such assistance to be made available to benefit Afghan women. Prohibits making any of the funds appropriated by this Act available to a private voluntary organization which fails to provide the records for an AID audit or which is not registered with AID. Withholds a specified amount of military assistance and financing from El Salvador until the President reports to the Appropriations Committees that El Salvador has concluded specified murder investigations and pursued all legal avenues to bring to trial those responsible for specified murders. Expresses the sense of the Congress that all countries receiving U.S. foreign aid should cooperate in facilitating lasting solutions to refugee situations. Prohibits making any of the funds appropriated by this Act available for: (1) Ethiopia's forced resettlement or villagization programs; or (2) Sudan, Liberia, Lebanon, Zaire, Chile, Yemen, Haiti, Guatemala, or Somalia, except through regular congressional notification procedures. Earmarks certain appropriated funds for the reimbursement of Federal and State agencies, institutions of higher learning, and private and voluntary organizations that detail employees to carry out child survival activities and AIDS treatment, control, and research. Authorizes ESF funds for Chile to be used to support efforts to develop a national consensus on the importance of an independent judiciary and the administration of justice. Amends the International Security and Development Cooperation Act of 1981 to waive a prohibition on the sale, or licensing for export, of components, parts, tools, technical manuals, and time compliance to technical orders or retrofits for specified Chilean Air Force aircraft (currently, technical manuals for specified aircraft sold to such air force before 1976). Amends the Arms Export Control Act to extend waiver authority with respect to reciprocal leasing agreements through FY 1991. Requires delivery of defense equipment (permitted under special authority during unforeseen emergencies) within 120 days of congressional notification. Sets forth additional notification requirements with respect to the transfer of defense equipment to NATO. Requires the Secretary of State to transmit copies of all debt relief agreements to appropriate congressional committees. Sets forth additional notification requirements with respect to negotiations for debt restructuring, rescheduling, or relief and reporting requirements with respect to debt agreements. Continues the funding of Middle East regional cooperative programs. Amends the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 to extend the date by which a certain amount of private sector contributions must be made for capitalizing a scholarship endowment for Israeli Arabs. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the U.S. Government should use its influence in the Asian Development Bank to secure reconsideration of the decision to designate Taiwan as \"Taipei, China\"; and (2) the Asian Development Bank should resolve this dispute in a fashion that is acceptable to Taiwan. Prohibits the use of funds provided under any Act for the sale of M-833 or comparable antitank shells containing a depleted uranium penetrating component to any country except a NATO member country, major non-NATO ally, or Pakistan. Allows earmarked funds to be reprogrammed for other programs within the same account if: (1) compliance with the earmark is made impossible by any Act; or (2) with respect to countries with which the United States has base access agreements, the President determines that the recipient of funds has reduced its military or economic cooperation with the United States. Requires the President, before funds for such countries are reprogrammed, to provide a written policy justification to the Appropriations Committees. Subjects such reprogramming to the regular notification procedures of such committees. Provides for U.S. opposition to assistance to terrorist countries by international financial institutions. Prohibits bilateral assistance to such countries. Establishes the Commission on Management of Agency for International Development Programs to study, make recommendations, and report to the Congress on the adequacy of program management, personnel management, and personal accountability for program management. Makes funds available for the Commission from funding for AID operating expenses. Earmarks specified amounts of ESF assistance for: (1) scholarships to disadvantaged South Africans; and (2) Bolivia, Ecuador, Jamaica, and Peru. Earmarks additional ESF assistance for narcotics control activities in Peru, Bolivia, Colombia, and Ecuador, subject to certain conditions. Makes available funds for Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and Jamaica to promote the production, processing, and marketing of products which can be economically produced in such countries. Earmarks a specified amount of foreign military financing for Bolivia, Peru, and Colombia. Prohibits such funds from being provided to any country whose government engages in consistent human rights violations. Earmarks a specified amount of funds for narcotics control law enforcement activities in Bolivia, Peru, Colombia, and Ecuador. Prohibits assistance to countries which fail to take steps to prevent illicit drugs from being sold to U.S. Government personnel or from entering the United States illegally. Earmarks specified amounts of assistance for AID for narcotics education and awareness programs and narcotics related assistance activities. Requires agreements for the sale or provision of articles on the U.S. Munitions List to expressly state that such articles will be provided only with the understanding that they will not be transferred to Cyprus or used to further the severance or division of Cyprus. Directs the President to report to the Congress when such articles are used for such purposes. Permits the commercial leasing of defense articles (other than major defense equipment) by Israel, Egypt, NATO countries, and major non-NATO allies if the President determines that there are compelling foreign policy or national security reasons for providing such articles by lease rather than by government-to-government sale. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to authorize the President to provide assistance for long-term development in Subsaharan Africa. Provides that the purpose of such assistance is to help the poor majority of Subsaharan Africans to participate in development through economic growth that is equitable, participatory, environmentally sustainable, and self-reliant. Requires AID to take into account the local-level perspective of poor Subsaharan Africans during the planning process for project and program assistance. Provides for the participation and integration of African women in such development activities. Requires such assistance to emphasize projects to address critical sectoral priorities for long-term development. Designates such priorities as: (1) increased agricultural production and the maintenance and restoration of renewable natural resources; (2) improved health conditions; (3) increased access to voluntary family planning services; (4) improved relevance, equity, and efficiency of education; and (5) the development of income-generating opportunities for the unemployed and underemployed. Declares that AID should impose minimum levels of assistance for certain critical sectors. Requires the assistance to be concentrated in countries that will make the most effective use of such assistance. Permits funds made available under this Act to be used to assist Subsaharan African countries in increasing their capacity to participate in donor coordination mechanisms. Sets forth transfer authorities and reprogramming notifications with respect to such funds. Permits such funds to be used to assist specified sector projects supported by the SADCC. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the authorization of appropriations to carry out African development should be extended whenever appropriate; and (2) there should be periodic evaluations of AID's progress in achieving the purpose of African development assistance. Repeals provisions concerning: (1) assistance for education, training, and scholarships to victims of apartheid; and (2) the Sahel development program. Waives a prohibition of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 on aid to Marxist-Leninist countries (with respect to Eastern Europe). Amends such Act to waive certain restrictions on sales of defense articles or services made before September 30, 1992 (currently, 1990). Amends the American Aid to Poland Act of 1988 and the Agricultural Act of 1949 to apply provisions concerning the use of proceeds from the sale of agricultural commodities in Poland by nongovernmental entities to Polish governmental agencies. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. executive directors of the multilateral development banks and the IMF to: (1) seek the adoption of procedures prohibiting personnel from using first class air travel for business; and (2) report to the Secretary and the Congress, if such procedures are not adopted, on the estimated additional costs incurred by the banks or the IMF by reason of such first class travel. Amends the International Development Association Act to authorize the U.S. Governor of the World Bank to pay a specified amount to the International Development Association for the ninth replenishment of the Association. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the International Financial Institutions Act to direct the Secretary to instruct the U.S. executive director of the World Bank to urge the Bank to: (1) improve the Bank's ability in interacting with nongovernmental organizations and local groups that are affected by loans made by the Bank to borrower countries; and (2) delegate to the Bank's field offices in borrowing countries greater responsibility for decisions on Bank-financed projects. Requires the Secretary to instruct the U.S. executive director of the Bank to urge the Bank to support an increase in lending for population, health, and nutrition programs. Directs the Secretary to instruct the U.S. executive directors of the multilateral development banks and the IMF to urge the adoption of procedures to ensure nondiscriminatory employment practices. European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Act - Authorizes the President to accept U.S. membership in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Applies a specified provision of the Bretton Woods Agreements Act concerning the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial Problems to the Bank. Authorizes the Secretary to subscribe to 100,000 shares of the Bank's capital stock. Authorizes appropriations. Grants U.S. district courts original jurisdiction with respect to actions by or against the Bank brought within the United States. Provides that securities issued or guaranteed by the Bank shall be deemed to be exempted securities for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Requires the Bank to file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Permits the SEC to suspend such exemptions at any time. Sets forth provisions concerning congressional consultation with respect to guidelines for the Bank. Amends the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 to increase and extend the authorization of appropriations for the Tied Aid Credit Fund. Amends the International Finance Corporation Act to provide that any securities issued or guaranteed by the International Finance Corporation shall be deemed to be exempted securities for purposes of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Requires the Corporation to file reports with the SEC, as appropriate. Permits the SEC to suspend such exemptions at any time. Makes available ESF and development assistance funds for humanitarian and development assistance for Cambodians. Terminates such assistance to any organization that is cooperating with the Khmer Rouge in military operations. Directs the President to report to the Speaker of the House and the President pro tempore of the Senate on the extent of military cooperation since 1986 between the Khmer Rouge and any faction of the noncommunist resistance. Requires the AID Administrator to assess the priorities of the humanitarian and development needs of the Cambodian people. Directs the Congress and the President, after the conclusion of the Paris Conference on Cambodia, to consult on lifting the Trading with the Enemy Act restrictions on Cambodia. Provides that all AID contracts and solicitations shall require U.S. marine insurance companies to have a fair opportunity to bid for marine insurance. Expresses the sense of the Congress that funds made available for the International Fund for Ireland should be allocated to programs which emphasize jobs creation in areas having the highest rates of unemployment. Prohibits the use of certain assistance provided under this Act for assistance to Afghanistan if such assistance would be provided through the Soviet-controlled government of Afghanistan. Requires at least 25 percent of ESF assistance for El Salvador to be used for certain projects and activities in accordance with the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. Requires at least ten percent of development assistance and assistance for famine recovery and development in Africa (unless the AID Administrator determines otherwise) to be made available only for U.S. organizations and individuals that are: (1) business concerns or private organizations owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals; (2) historically black colleges or universities; and (3) colleges and universities in which more than 40 percent of the students are Hispanic American. Directs the Administrator to: (1) utilize the authority of the Small Business Act; (2) enter into contracts with small business concerns owned by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals using less than full and open competitive procedures; and (3) issue regulations requiring contracts in excess of $500,000 to provide that at least ten percent of the contract shall be subcontracted to such organizations and individuals. Requires AID personnel with contracting authority to notify the AID Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization before advertising contracts in excess of $100,000. Directs the Administrator to include as part of the performance evaluation of any mission director such director's efforts to carry out such activities. Prohibits the United States from selling or making available Stinger missiles to any Persian Gulf country. Repeals a provision of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Apropriations Act, 1989 that prohibits the sale of defense articles or services to Qatar unless Qatar returns all illegally-acquired or -purchased Stinger antiaircraft missiles. Prohibits the provision of funds appropriated under this Act to any person undertaking an action prohibited by U.S. law. Authorizes nongovernmental organizations which receive AID economic assistance to invest any local currencies which accrue as a result of such assistance. Earmarks ESF and development assistance for Lebanon. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to add major non-NATO allies to the list of countries in which U.S. stockpiles may be located outside U.S. military bases. Limits the dollar amount of additions to such stockpiles for FY 1991. Earmarks a specified amount of stockpile funds for stockpiles in Israel. Extends the period during which the President may waive prohibitions on assistance to Pakistan to April 1, 1992. Prohibits any ESF assistance or funds for foreign military financing and training and international military education and training from being made available to Pakistan unless the President reports to the Congress that: (1) the state of emergency in Pakistan did not interfere in the fair conduct of the National Assembly elections; (2) the Government of Pakistan held timely, free, fair, and internationally monitored National Assembly elections, open to the full participation of all legal parties and candidates; (3) the proceedings of the Special Courts did not interfere with the conduct of free and fair elections; and (4) the process of convening the National Assembly is progressing without interference. Sets forth requirements for the maintenance of separate accounts for, and the use of, local currencies, cash transfers, and non-project sector assistance. Requires OPIC to support projects in Poland, Hungary, and other East European countries to enhance the nongovernmental sector and reduce state involvement in the economy. Prohibits funding for any member of the Nicaraguan Resistance who is not disarmed and is not abiding by specified cease-fire agreements. Repeals a provision that prohibits assistance for victims of civil strife from being channeled through the Nicaraguan Government. Prohibits funding for any international financial institution that compensates a U.S. executive director at a rate in excess of that provided under the Executive Schedule. Prohibits the obligation of funds for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development until the President reaches an agreement with the Polish Government or other creditors which accurately reflects the collectability of Polish debts to the United States and adjusts the amount of debt and debt service payable to the United States, subject to the following conditions: (1) an IMF agreement is in effect with respect to Poland and it is the intent of the Polish Government to continue the program; (2) the recent change of the Polish Government into a democracy is being maintained; and (3) the Polish Government is seeking comparable treatment of public and private external debt. Amend the Arms Export Control Act to permit funds for foreign military credit sales to be used by a foreign country to make payments owed to the United States for credits or military loans. Requires the Congressional Presentation Documents of agencies included within this Act to contain funding projections for each of their major program components for the three years following the year for which new budget or other authority is being requested. Directs the Secretary of State to submit to the Appropriations Committees: (1) a listing of countries whose governments are engaging in a consistent pattern of gross violations of human rights; and (2) a report on how, for each country receiving foreign military financing assistance, such assistance will be conducted to promote and advance human rights and how the United States will avoid identification with activities contrary to international standards of human rights. Makes available a certain amount of Polish currencies held by the United States for the Research Center on Jewish History and Culture of the Jagiellonian University of Krakow, Poland. Provides that such currencies shall be made available only to the extent that they do not diminish planned funding for the American Children's Hospital, Krakow, Poland. Requires the Secretary of the Treasury, in all negotiations concerning the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to seek: (1) the establishment of environmental assessment procedures for all operations with significant environmental impacts; (2) establishment of an environmental unit to review proposed operations, monitor compliance with environmental provisions, and provide policy guidance; (3) establishment of procedures for consultation with and involvement of the public and nongovernmental organizations; and (4) agreement that a significant amount of funds shall be devoted to environmental restoration and protection projects. Authorizes the proceeds of overseas property acquired by AID to be deposited in a fund to be known as the Property Management Fund. Iraq Sanctions Act of 1990 - Condemns Iraq's invasion of Kuwait and supports the President's actions in response to such invasion. Calls for the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of Iraqi forces from Kuwait. Supports the efforts of the United Nations Security Council and the imposition and enforcement of multilateral sanctions against Iraq. Calls on U.S. allies and other countries to bring about an end to Iraq's occupation of Kuwait. Condemns Iraq's human rights violations in Kuwait. Directs the President to keep the Congress fully informed and to consult with the Congress with respect to current and anticipated events regarding Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Requires the President to continue the trade embargo and other economic sanctions with respect to Iraq and Kuwait. Sets forth provisions concerning congressional notification with respect to the termination of sanctions. Prohibits any assistance made available pursuant to this Act to carry out the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 or the Arms Export Control Act to be provided to any country that is not in compliance with the United Nations Security Council sanctions against Iraq unless the President certifies to the Congress that such assistance: (1) is in the U.S. national interest; (2) will directly benefit the needy people in such country; or (3) will be humanitarian assistance for foreign nationals who have fled Iraq and Kuwait. Authorizes the President, if the taking of such action would promote the effectiveness of economic sanctions against Iraq, to prohibit the importation into the United States of any products of a foreign country that has not prohibited the importation of Iraqi products into its customs territory and the export of products to Iraq. Prescribes civil and criminal penalties for violations of specified Executive Orders concerning sanctions against Iraq. Provides for the enforcement of all provisions of law that impose sanctions against countries engaged in gross violations of human rights and that support terrorism against Iraq. Calls on the President to seek multilateral cooperation to: (1) deny dangerous technologies to Iraq; and (2) induce Iraq to respect internationally recognized human rights and to allow international humanitarian and human rights organizations to have access to Iraq and Kuwait. Prohibits, as part of the sanctions against Iraq: (1) any sales to Iraq under the Arms Export Control Act; (2) the issuance of licenses for the export to Iraq of items on the U.S. Munitions List; (3) exports to Iraq of certain goods or technology listed under the Export Administration Act of 1979; (4) the issuance of licenses of authorizations under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 for the export to Iraq of nuclear materials, facilities, and technology; (5) U.S. support for loans or financial or technical assistance to Iraq by international financial institutions; (6) the provision of credits and other assistance to Iraq through the Commodity Credit Corporation; and (7) the provision of assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export Control Act other than emergency medical and humanitarian assistance. Authorizes the President to waive any sanction within 60 days after certifying to the Congress that: (1) the Iraqi Government has demonstrated substantial improvement in respect for human rights; (2) the Iraqi Government is not acquiring, developing, or manufacturing ballistic missiles or chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons or components for such weapons, has forsworn the first use of such weapons, and is taking steps to dispose of such weapons; (3) the Iraqi Government does not support international terrorism; (4) the Iraqi Government is in compliance with international law; and (5) the President determines that such waiver is in U.S. national security interests. Permits the President to waive any sanction within 30 days after certifying to the Congress that: (1) there has been a fundamental change in the leadership of the Iraqi Government; and (2) the Iraqi Government has provided assurances that it respects human rights, will not acquire, manufacture, or use and will destroy chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles, will not provide support for international terrorism, and will comply with obligations under international law. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by any Act to approve the licensing for export of any supercomputer to any country that is assisting Iraq in improving rocket technology or chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons capability. Directs the President to begin negotiations with governments with which the United States has bilateral supercomputer agreements on conditions restricting the transfer to Iraq of supercomputer or associated technology. Requires the President to study and report to specified congressional committees on: (1) the sale, export, and third party transfer or development of nuclear, biological, chemical, and ballistic missile technology to or with Iraq; (2) Iraq's offensive military capability and its effect on the Middle East balance of power; and (3) steps taken by other nations to curtail the export of goods, services, and technologies to Iraq that might enhance Iraq's nuclear, biological, chemical, and ballistic missile capability. Directs the President to provide a complete accounting of international compliance with each of the United Nations Security Council sanctions resolutions against Iraq and to list each country that has provided any assistance to Iraq and the amount and type of assistance in violation of each United Nations resolution. Requires the President to encourage other nations to adopt sanctions against Iraq. Amends the Foreign Service Act of 1980 to require the annuities of specified AID Inspector General Foreign Service criminal investigators/inspectors to be computed in the same manner as those for civil law enforcement officers. Sets forth provisions concerning the computation of such annuities and mandatory retirement for such investigators/inspectors. Amends the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to increase the limitation on the amount of funds the President may use for unanticipated contingencies (currently, emergency purposes). Authorizes the President to transfer excess defense articles to countries which receive foreign military financing in FY 1990 and which, as of October 1, 1990, contributed armed forces to deter Iraqi aggression in the Persian Gulf. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to finance the procurement of chemicals or chemical agents that may be used for chemical weapons production. Makes such prohibition inapplicable if the President determines that such materials are not intended to be used by the recipient for chemical weapons production. Waives specified notification requirements with respect to assistance if there is a substantial risk to human health or welfare. Requires the President to seek to convene a conference of the major official creditors of the Government of Egypt for the purpose of adjusting Egypt's official debt in a manner that reflects the real collectability of such debt. Directs the President to encourage other governments holding major amounts of Egyptian military debt to give that debt the same treatment that it is accorded by the United States. Places a moratorium, from October 1, 1990, to March 31, 1991, on Egypt's payment obligations for loans made before October 1, 1990, under the Arms Export Control Act (AECA). Makes provisions of law that prohibit assistance to countries in default on payments to the United States inapplicable during such moratorium. Requires the Secretary of Defense to: (1) issue to the Secretary of the Treasury obligations to purchase all notes made by Egypt of amounts owed to the United States as a result of AECA loans; and (2) purchase such notes to discharge the responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense as guarantor of such notes. Directs the President to report to the Congress on the value of all loans owed by Egypt to the United States based on realistic payment expectations. Authorizes the President, subject to certain conditions, to reduce Egypt's debt. Permits the President to cancel Egypt's debt if he reports to the Congress that such cancellation is essential to the success of Desert Shield or to enhance peace and stability in the Middle East. Prohibits making available any ESF or foreign military financing assistance for Kenya unless the President reports to the Congress that the Kenyan Government is taking steps to: (1) charge and try or release all prisoners; (2) cease physical abuse or mistreatment of prisoners; (3) restore the independence of the judiciary; and (4) restore freedoms of expression. Exempts from a prohibition on assistance for foreign police training assistance provided to police forces participating in the regional security system of the Eastern Caribbean states. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the Enterprise for the Americas Initiative could encourage and support market-oriented reform and economic growth in Latin America and the Caribbean; and (2) the Initiative should be given prompt consideration. Urges the President to: (1) make maximum use of excess defense articles as supplements to funded security assistance programs to meet defense requirements of allies; and (2) establish policies to ensure that excess assets are applied against such requirements. Authorizes the President to transfer excess nonlethal defense articles to countries for whom a foreign military financing program was justified to help modernize the defense capabilities of such countries. Permits such transfers only if: (1) the equipment is drawn from existing stocks of the Department of Defense (DOD); (2) no DOD funds for the procurement of defense equipment are expended for such transfers; (3) the transfer of such articles will not have an adverse impact on the military readiness of the United States; and (4) the President determines that transferring such articles is preferable to selling them. Waives a requirement for the reimbursement of the U.S. Government for expenses incurred in making such transfers. Requires the President to report to specified congressional committees on: (1) the countries to which excess nonlethal defense articles have been furnished; and (2) the value of articles furnished to each country. Prohibits DOD funds from being expended for crating, packing, handling, and transportation of such articles. Permits crating, packing, handling, and transportation of such articles without charge to a country if: (1) a country has an agreement providing the United States with base rights; (2) the country is eligible for assistance from the International Development Association; and (3) the excess defense articles are being provided to the country under the authority of this Act. Makes a specified requirement of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 concerning the maintenance of the military balance in the Eastern Mediterranean and excess defense articles for Turkey and Greece applicable to articles furnished under this Act during FY 1991. Authorizes the expenditure of ten percent of the military assistance deposited in the Demobilization and Transition Fund to carry out judicial reforms in El Salvador if the President certifies to the Congress that the El Salvadoran Government has made significant progress in establishing an independent civilian judiciary and prosecutorial and investigative system. Sets forth conditions for meeting the progress requirement. Extends certain deadlines under the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 with respect to admissions of Soviet refugees persecuted on the grounds of race, religion, nationality, or membership in a social group and the adjustment of status for certain Soviet and Indochinese aliens. Requires the delivery of excess defense articles to NATO allies and major non-NATO allies on the southern and southeastern flank of NATO to be given priority over the delivery of such articles to other countries. Prohibits, six months after this Act's enactment, the expenditure of funds made available pursuant to this Act to provide assistance to Yugoslavia. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. executive directors to international financial institutions to oppose any assistance to Yugoslavia. Exempts from such prohibition assistance to support democratic parties or movements and emergency and humanitarian assistance. Makes such prohibition inapplicable if: (1) all the individual republics of Yugoslavia have held free and fair elections and are not engaged in a pattern of human rights violations; or (2) the Secretary of State certifies that Yugoslavia is making significant strides toward complying with the Helsinki Accords and is encouraging any republic which has not held free and fair elections to do so. Authorizes the President to direct the drawdown of DOD defense articles and services and military education and training for Israel. Requires such drawdowns to be made from units withdrawn or to be withdrawn from Europe. Applies a specified requirement regarding the reimbursement of appropriation accounts to such drawdown. Waives a requirement for the reimbursement of the U.S. Government for expenses incurred in making such drawdown. Requires the Office of Personnel Management to prescribe regulations for the application of certain life and health insurance benefits to U.S. hostages in Iraq, Kuwait, and Lebanon and their family members for the period such hostages remain in hostage status. Provides that such hostages shall be paid at the GS-9 rate of pay for the period in which they remain as hostages without receiving salaries from their employers. Entitles hostages and family members, during the period of hostage status and 12 months after such status ceases, to Federal health and life insurance benefits if such benefits were not provided by other insurance coverage. Earmarks a specified amount of ESF funds for such purposes. Prohibits assistance under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 from being provided to any government failing to take measures to protect children from exploitation, abuse, or forced conscription into military or paramilitary services. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) the United States should explore the need for the establishment of an International Criminal Court to assist the international community in dealing more effectively with criminal acts defined in international conventions; and (2) such court should not derogate from standards of due process, the rights of the accused to a fair trial, and the sovereignty of individual nations. Requires the Judicial Conference of the United States to report to the Congress on the feasibility of, and relationship to, the Federal judiciary of an International Criminal Court. Directs the President to report to the Congress on: (1) the name of an individual from the private sector who will serve as the Chairman of the Citizens Democracy Corps (CDC) Commission who will select other private citizens from business, educational, agricultural, voluntary, or philanthropic activities to serve on the Commission; and (2) CDC's strategic implementation plan. Expresses the sense of the Congress that: (1) Poland's debt service should be reduced to safeguard the reform concept; (2) a solution of such problem should entail outright debt and debt service reduction and lengthening of maturities, as well as an infusion of new capital; (3) the Western governments and private banks should contribute to efforts to reduce Poland's debt; and (4) the President should undertake to bring the Paris Club to a favorable decision on reducing Poland's debt. Directs the Attorney General to enter into negotiations with foreign law enforcement and judicial agencies and officials with jurisdiction over companies that manufacture, market, sell, or purchase certain precursor and/or essential chemicals used in the production of illicit narcotics. Requires the purposes of such negotiations to be to: (1) establish a list of precursor and essential chemicals contributing to the illicit manufacture of controlled substances; (2) reach international agreements for maintaining records of transactions of listed chemicals; (3) establish a procedure by which such records are made available to U.S. law enforcement authorities for investigation purposes; and (4) encourage chemical source countries to enact specified chemical control legislation. Directs the President to impose penalties or sanctions on corporations or individuals faililng to maintain or make records available to U.S. law enforcement authorities. Expresses the sense of the Senate that the limit on personal expenses of U.S. citizens traveling in Vietnam should be raised to an appropriate level. Commends Israel's decision to open the schools on the West Bank. Expresses the hope that the schools will remain open and be respected as places of learning. Makes funds appropriated by the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 for title III of the Agricultural Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 available for the donation of commodities.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    International Forestry Cooperation\n    International Forestry Cooperation Act of 1990 - Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to focus activities under this Act on countries which could have a substantial impact on emissions of greenhouse gases related to global warming. Authorizes the Secretary to: (1) provide assistance to promote sustainable development and global environmental stability; (2) share specified skills related to natural resource administration; (3) promote the transfer and utilization of scientific information and technologies and engage in scientific exchange and cooperative research with foreign institutions; and (4) cooperate with organizations that further international programs for natural resource activities. Requires the Secretary to conduct such activities in countries that receive AID assistance only at the request, or with the concurrence of, the AID Administrator. Permits the Secretary to take specified actions in support of the Tropical Forestry Action Plan and to address tropical deforestation and degradation. Requires the Secretary to expand the capabilities of and construct additional facilities at the Caribbean National Forest and Institute of Tropical Forestry in Puerto Rico. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 to authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to provide assistance to other countries with respect to specified cooperative forestry activities."