"8/2/1990--Passed House amended. Aviation Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Aviation Safety and Capacity Expansion\n    Amends the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 to include as an \"airport development\" activity pertaining to the acquisition of land for, or work involved to construct, a burn area training structure on or off the airport to provide live fire drill training for aircraft rescue and firefighting personnel. Declares that the Congress finds that: (1) all airport and airway programs should be administered in a manner that prevents unjust and discriminatory practices that may be applied between category and class of aircraft; and (2) artificial restrictions on airport capacity should not be imposed to alleviate air traffic delays unless they do not unjustly discriminate between categories and classes of aircraft. Authorizes appropriations for airport development and planning projects. Directs the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to submit to the Congress a ten-year Airway Capital Investment Plan (currently, a national airways system plan). Authorizes appropriations for air navigation facilities. Authorizes appropriations for the general operations of the FAA. Repeals for FY 1991 and 1992 a specified reduction of the maximum amount which may be appropriated from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund for costs: (1) of services provided under international agreements relating to the joint financing of air navigation services which are assessed against the United States; and (2) incurred by the Secretary of Transportation to flight check, operate, and maintain air navigation facilities. Sets forth a formula for a higher ceiling on appropriations to cover such costs. Authorizes appropriations for the costs incurred by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in providing the FAA with weather reporting services. Declares that the Congress finds that special emphasis should be placed on the conversion of former military air bases to civil use and on the identification and improvement of additional joint-use facilities. Requires a specified percentage (set-aside) of airport development and planning project funds for FY 1991 and 1992 to be distributed to sponsors of current or former military airports to develop them so as to improve the capacity of the national air transportation system. Amends the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to authorize the Secretary of Transportation to grant a public agency which controls a commercial service airport authority to assess a fee for enplaning passengers at such airport to finance airport-related projects. Sets forth requirements with respect to the use and imposition of such fee. Amends the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 to reduce by a specified percentage airport improvement program apportionments for large and medium hub airports that impose a passenger facility charge. Earmarks a specified percentage of funds saved by such reduction for: (1) a specified discretionary fund; and (2) the establishment of a small airport fund to be distributed at the discretion of the Secretary. Redefines \"eligible point\" for the small community air service program. Prohibits determination that a point is not eligible on the basis of the per passenger subsidy at the point or on any other unspecified basis. Provides funding for the program. Authorizes the State block grant pilot program through FY 1992. Requires the Secretary to review and report on the program to the Congress not later than January 31, 1992. Requires the Secretary to develop a system of manned Auxiliary Flight Service Stations. Directs the Administrator to conduct an air space study of the Caribbean and Miami air traffic control regions to determine methods of improving air safety. Provides for: (1) the operation of airport control towers for St. Thomas and St. Croix, Virgin Islands; and (2) the replacement of radar facilities for St. Thomas airport which were destroyed by Hurricane Hugo. Directs the Administrator to study the potential use of engine condition monitoring systems on aircraft. Prohibits the Secretary, except under specified circumstances, from obligating any funds for airport and airway development projects unless U.S. steel and manufactured products are used in such projects. Sets forth penalties for persons who fraudulently affix \"Made in America\" labels on products that are not made in America. Prohibits any person or enterprise domiciled or operating under the laws of a foreign government from entering any contract or subcontract under this Act if the foreign government, in its procurement practices, engages in significant and persistent discrimination against U.S. products or services, thereby harming U.S. businesses.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Federal Aviation Administration Procurement Reform\n    Amends the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to authorize the Administrator of the FAA (currently, the Secretary of Transportation) to procure personal property or services as well as real property on a noncompetitive basis under specified circumstances. Provides for multiyear service and property acquisition contracts with terms of up to five years.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering, and Development Authorization Act of 1990\n    Federal Aviation Administration Research, Engineering, and Development Authorization Act of 1990 - Amends the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982 to authorize appropriations for FY 1991 and 1992 for aviation research, engineering and development, and demonstration projects. Amends the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 to authorize the Administrator of the FAA to make grants to colleges, universities, and nonprofit research organizations to: (1) conduct aviation research; and (2) establish a research consortium consisting of regional centers for continuing research with respect to civil aviation. Requires the Administrator to make an annual report to specified congressional committees with regard to such research grant program. Directs the Comptroller General to study and report to specified congressional committees on the advisability of granting to the Administrator specific leasing and multiyear contracting authority for the purchase of real property and goods and services. Authorizes the FAA to award contracts pursuant to research grants under Buy American requirements to U.S. firms. Requires the Administration to report to the Congress regarding such contracts.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Environmental Impact and Safety Implications of Changes in Aircraft Flight Patterns\n    Directs the Administrator of the FAA to: (1) issue an environmental impact statement on the effects of changes in aircraft flight patterns over the States of New York and New Jersey as a result of the expanded East Coast Plan; (2) investigate the effects on air safety over such States as a result of the Plan; (3) report to the Congress on the results of the environmental impact statement and of the investigation; and (4) implement any appropriate plan modifications.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Geodetic Navigation Information\n    Requires the Administrators of the FAA and of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration to complete the transfer of geodetic coordinate navigation information from NAD-27 format to NAD-83 format."