"4/13/1989--Passed House amended. Declares that the purpose of this Act is to implement the Bipartisan Accord on Central America of March 24, 1989. Authorizes the President to transfer to the Agency for International Development (AID) unobligated funds from specified defense appropriations accounts for: (1) humanitarian assistance (including transportation expenses) to the Nicaraguan Resistance to be available through February 28, 1990; and (2) operating expenses of AID to be available through March 31, 1990. Requires the transportation of such assistance to be arranged solely by AID in a manner consistent with the Bipartisan Accord. Prohibits the transportation of any assistance not specified by this Act. Authorizes the President to transfer to AID an additional amount from the specified accounts for medical assistance for the civilian victims of Nicaraguan civil strife. Requires such assistance to be transported and administered by the Nicaraguan Catholic Church. Encourages the President to submit proposals for actions to: (1) provide additional economic assistance to the democratic countries of Central America; (2) facilitate the ability of Central American economies to grow through the development of infrastructure, expansion of exports, and increased investment opportunities; (3) provide a plan to assist Central American countries in managing debt; and (4) develop such initiatives in concert with Western Europe, Japan, and other democratic allies. Rescinds funds available for research, development, test, and evaluation for the Navy for 1989. Prohibits the obligation or expenditure of funds available under this Act to assist the Nicaraguan Resistance in military or paramilitary operations. Prohibits providing assistance under this Act to any group including an individual who has been found to engage in: (1) gross violations of internationally recognized human rights; or (2) drug smuggling or significant misuse of funds. Grants congressional oversight for assistance under this Act to specified congressional committees. Applies provisions of a specified Act concerning management and delivery of assistance to the Nicaraguan Resistance to assistance under this Act. Prohibits additional U.S. assistance to the Nicaraguan Resistance unless authorized specifically by a subsequent Act. Repeals title IX (Assistance for the Nicaraguan Resistance) of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1989. Requires the Secretary to report to the Congress on progress in the peace and democratization process, including the use of assistance under this Act."