"10/26/1990--Conference report filed in House. District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1991 - Appropriates specified sums to the District of Columbia for FY 1991 for the Federal payment to the District of Columbia, provided there are a specified number of metropolitan police officers, and for a Federal contribution: (1) to retirement funds; (2) to Saint Elizabeths Hospital; (3) to close open air drug markets, increase police visibility, and provide for speedier court processing of drug-related violent cases; (4) to match District of Columbia funding for the Commission on Budget and Financial Priorities; (5) for the maintenance and improvement of public school facilities and grounds, for the D.C. Schools Project for immigrant children, for the expansion of the early childhood program, and for the Anacostia Project in Southeast Washington; (6) for the D.C. Fire Department; (7) for the After School Kids Program, the Social Services Division, and counsel for Child Abuse and Neglect Program fees; (8) to the District of Columbia General Hospital; (9) for a breast and cervical cancer detection program and programs providing care for substance abusers, their children, and boarder babies; (10) to the Children's National Medical Center for a cost-shared National Child Protection Center; and (11) the District of Columbia Institute for Mental Health to provide professional mental health care to low-income, underinsured, and indigent children, adults, and families in the District. Retains in the Treasury specified sums previously appropriated for a Federal payment for the design and construction of a prison facility within the District of Columbia, subject to certain conditions. Requires the District of Columbia to operate and maintain a telephone hotline for prison-area residents to receive information concerning escapes, fires, and riots at the prison. Appropriates specified sums out of the District of Columbia general fund for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (8) repayments of specified loans and interest; (9) repayment of the general fund deficit; (10) short-term borrowing; (11) employees' optical and dental benefits; (12) capital outlay; (13) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund and water construction projects; (14) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; and (15) the Cable Television Enterprise Fund. Directs the Mayor to reduce, by specified sums, appropriations and expenditures for supplies, energy, equipment, and personal services. Sets forth restrictions on the expenditure of appropriations made by this Act. Makes funds available for: (1) transportation allowances for official duties; (2) travel expenses and the payment of dues for organizations concerned with the work of the District of Columbia government; (3) refunds and the payment of judgments entered against the District of Columbia government; (4) the payment of public assistance; (5) the cost, subject to restriction, of overtime or temporary positions; and (6) payments authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977. Prohibits the use of funds for: (1) the compensation of any permanent employee of the District of Columbia government appointed during any month in which the number of employees exceeds the number of positions authorized by this Act; (2) activities which permit or encourage partisan political activities; (3) the salary of any District of Columbia government employee whose name, title, grade, salary, or work and salary history are not available for inspection by specified congressional committees and the District of Columbia Council, or whose name and salary are not available for public inspection; (4) abortions, except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term; (5) publicity or propaganda purposes; (6) implementation of a personnel lottery for the hiring of firefighters or police officers; (7) reprogramming, unless the reprogramming was approved according to specified procedures; (8) the provision of personal servants for any District of Columbia employee; (9) the purchase of passenger automobiles with an estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon; or (10) the salaries, expenses, or other costs associated with, the offices of U.S. Senators or U.S. Representatives. Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1992 be transmitted to the Congress by April 15, 1991. Requires the Mayor to develop an annual plan for capital outlay borrowings. Prohibits the Mayor from: (1) borrowing funds for capital projects without the prior approval of the District of Columbia Council; or (2) using money borrowed for capital projects for operating expenses of the District of Columbia government. Sets forth requirements with respect to the compensation of the City Administrator, the Board of Directors of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency, and District of Columbia employees generally. Authorizes the Department of Administrative Services to pay rentals and alter and repair rented premises. Directs the Mayor to submit to the D.C. Council, within 30 days after the end of the first quarter of FY 1991, the FY 1991 revenue estimates. Amends the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act to extend, for one year, the District's authority to sell its general obligation bonds through negotiated sales. Prohibits the renewal or extension of any sole source contract with the District of Columbia government without opening that contract to the competitive bidding process, subject to exception. Requires any sequestration order under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act) to be applied to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act (rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts) which is not specifically exempted from sequestration by specified Federal law. Provides for repayment to the Federal Treasury of any amounts appropriated and paid to the District of Columbia before a sequestration order is issued, applying the sequestration percentage proportionately to each account not specifically exempted from sequestration. Amends the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1990 to extend, through 1991, the District's authority to receive direct quarterly payments from the Federal Government for estimated Federal usage of D.C. water and sanitary sewer services. Requires the District of Columbia to pay interest on its quarterly payments to the United States that are made more than 60 days after its receipt of an itemized statement from the Federal Bureau of Prisons of amounts due for housing D.C. convicts in Federal penitentiaries. Amends the District of Columbia Government Comprehensive Merit Personnel Act of 1978 to exempt, from the bona fide resident requirement, any person applying for or accepting any position in the Excepted Services of the District of Columbia as an attorney, and gives such applicant a hiring preference over a non-resident applicant for a position in the Career Service of the District. Gives employees of District of Columbia boards and commissions the same hiring preference. Allows an applicant to be appointed to a District of Columbia board without being a bona fide resident of the District. Gives hiring preference to Convention Center employees over non-resident applicants seeking a Career Service position in the District. Extends through FY 1991 the ban against using funds to remove the safety fences at the Duke Ellington Memorial Bridge until certain conditions are met, which can be found in the Dire Emergency Supplemental Appropriation for Disaster Assistance, Food Stamps, Unemployment Compensation Administration, and Other Urgent Needs, and Transfers, and Reducing Funds Budgeted for Military Spending Act of 1990. Excludes up to 75 officers or members of the Metropolitan Police Department who were hired before February 14, 1980, and who retire on disability before the end of 1991, from computation of the disability retirement rate for the purpose of reducing the authorized Federal payment to the District of Columbia Police Officers and Fire Fighters' Retirement Fund. Provides that if any of the 75 light duty positions that become vacant under this provision are filled they must be filled with civilian employees or filled temporarily by officers or members of the Police Department. Requires the Task Force on Substance Abusing Pregnant Women and Infants Exposed to Maternal Substance Abuse During Pregnancy to report by March 29, 1991."