"9/30/1990--Passed House amended. \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Continuing Appropriations\n    Makes continuing appropriations for FY 1991 for projects or activities provided for in the following Acts: (1) the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991; (2) the District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1991; (3) the Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1991; (4) the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1991; (5) the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991; (6) the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 1991; (7) the Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991; (8) the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991; (9) the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Government Appropriations Act, 1991; and (10) the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991. Provides for the continuation of projects or activities when the House of Representatives and the Senate differ in amounts or authority. Makes appropriations as necessary for: (1) projects or activities under the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990; (2) projects or activities under the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1990; (3) projects or activities under the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1990; and (4) the Aerostat Program of the U.S. Customs Service. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated under the Defense Appropriations Act, 1990 for: (1) new production of items not funded in FY 1990 or prior fiscal years; (2) the increase in production rates above those sustained with FY 1990 funds; (3) other specified activities not funded or authorized during FY 1990 (except for activities related to Operation Desert Shield); (4) the initiation of multi-year procurements utilizing advance procurement funding for economic order quantity procurement unless specifically appropriated later; and (5) procurement and research, development, test, and evaluation in excess of the current rate or the estimate for FY 1991, whichever is lower, except for activities related to Operation Desert Shield. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds to initiate or resume any activity for which funds were not available during FY 1990. Makes funds available under this Act until the earliest of: (1) October 5, 1990; (2) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; or (3) enactment of the applicable appropriations without any provision for such project or activity. Suspends any order on sequestration for FY 1991. Makes certain prohibitions of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1990 inapplicable with respect to assistance to Egypt. Requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services, for purposes of determining the amount of payments made under title XVIII (Medicare) of the Social Security Act to a hospital for the costs of inpatient hospital services for discharges occurring between October 1 and October 20, 1990, to apply the area wage index applicable to such hospital as of September 30, 1990. Extends the period through which certain discharges occur to October 20, 1990, for purposes of calculating inpatient hospital service payments on the basis of prospective rates.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations for Operation Desert Shield\n    Makes supplemental appropriations for FY 1990 for military and reserve personnel, operation and maintenance, other procurement, Army, research, development, test, and evaluation, Navy (with earmarked funds for the National Marrow Donor Program Foundation), and the Defense Stock Fund. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense to accept contributions of money or real or personal property for use by DOD for its programs, projects, and activities. Establishes in the Treasury the Defense Cooperation Account for the deposit of such contributions. States that a contribution of property may be: (1) retained and used by DOD in its donated form; (2) sold or otherwise disposed of upon acceptance by the Secretary; or (3) converted into a form usable by DOD. Requires the Secretary to report quarterly to the Congress on contributions received during the preceding quarter, including a description of all property received having a value of more than $1,000,000. Authorizes the Secretary to use donated property without specific authorization, with a specified condition. Authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to invest money contributions deposited into the Account and deposit interest obtained on such money into the Account. Requires the Secretary of Defense to notify the Congress of any condition imposed on the use of any contribution accepted by the Secretary. Directs the Comptroller General to conduct an annual audit of money and property accepted by the Secretary and to report the results to the Congress.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Supplemental Appropriations for Emergency Refugee Assistance\n    Authorizes additional appropriations to the Department of State for deposit into the United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund."