"10/16/1989--Senate agreed to House amendment with amendment. District of Columbia Appropriations Act, 1990 - Appropriates specified sums to the District of Columbia for FY 1990 for: (1) the Federal payment to the District of Columbia, provided there are a specified number of metropolitan police officers; (2) the Federal payment for water and sewer services; (3) a Federal contribution to retirement funds; and (4) a Federal contribution for the operating costs of Saint Elizabeths Hospital. Retains in the Treasury specified sums previously appropriated and makes new appropriations for a Federal payment for the design and construction of a prison facility within the District of Columbia, subject to certain conditions. Requires the District of Columbia to operate and maintain a telephone hotline for prison-area residents to receive information concerning escapes, fires, and riots at the prison. Appropriates a specified amount to close open air drug markets, increase police visibility, and provide for speedier court processing of drug-related violent cases. Appropriates specified sums out of the District of Columbia general fund for the current fiscal year for: (1) governmental direction and support; (2) economic development and regulation; (3) public safety and justice; (4) public education; (5) human support services; (6) public works; (7) the Washington Convention Center Fund; (8) repayments of specified loans and interest; (9) repayment of the general fund deficit; (10) short-term borrowing; (11) employees' optical and dental benefits; (12) capital outlay; (13) the Water and Sewer Enterprise Fund and water construction projects; (14) the Lottery and Charitable Games Enterprise Fund; and (15) the Cable Television Enterprise Fund. Requires the District of Columbia to operate and maintain a telephone hotline for Lorton-area residents to receive information concerning escapes, fires, and riots at Lorton prison. Directs the Mayor to reduce, by a specified sum, appropriations and expenditures for energy, equipment, and personal services. Sets forth restrictions on the expenditure of appropriations made by this Act. Makes funds available for: (1) transportation allowances for official duties; (2) travel expenses and the payment of dues for organizations concerned with the work of the District of Columbia government; (3) refunds and the payment of judgments entered against the District of Columbia government; (4) the payment of public assistance; (5) the cost, subject to restriction, of overtime or temporary positions; and (6) payments authorized by the District of Columbia Revenue Recovery Act of 1977. Prohibits the use of funds for: (1) the compensation of any permanent employee of the District of Columbia government appointed during any month in which the number of employees exceeds the number of positions authorized by this Act; (2) the compensation of any person appointed to fill a vacant position in an agency under the personnel control of the mayor unless such person is an officer of the Metropolitan Police Department or is a current D.C. employee who will not be moving to a higher grade level in a accepting the position; (3) activities which permit or encourage partisan political activities; (4) the salary of any District of Columbia government employee whose work and salary history are not available for inspection by specified congressional committees or, with regard to name and salary, available for public inspection; (5) publicity or propaganda purposes; (6) implementation of a personnel lottery for the hiring of firefighters or police officers; (7) reprogramming, unless the reprogramming was approved according to specified procedures; (8) the provision of personal servants for any District of Columbia employee; or (9) the purchase of passenger automobiles with an estimated miles per gallon average of less than 22 miles per gallon. Requires the District to implement a residency preference system rather than a residency requirement for career and educational service positions available on or after March 16, 1989. Prohibits use of the Federal funds provided in this Act to perform abortions, except where the life of the mother is endangered or in cases of rape or incest; or for drugs or devices to prevent implantation of the fertilized ovum; or for medical procedures necessary for the termination of an ectopic pregnancy. Requires that the annual budget for the District of Columbia government for FY 1991 be transmitted to the Congress by April 15, 1990. Requires the Mayor to develop an annual plan for capital outlay borrowings. Prohibits the Mayor from: (1) borrowing funds for capital projects without the prior approval of the District of Columbia Council; or (2) using money borrowed for capital projects for operating expenses of the District of Columbia government. Sets forth requirements with respect to the compensation of the City Administrator, the Board of Directors of the District of Columbia Redevelopment Land Agency, and District of Columbia employees generally. Authorizes the Department of Administrative Services to pay rentals and alter and repair rented premises. Directs the Mayor to submit to the D.C. Council, no later than 30 days after the end of the first quarter of FY 1990, the FY 1990 revenue estimate. Amends the District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act to extend, for one year, the District's authority to sell its general obligation bonds through negotiated sales. Prohibits the renewal or extension of any sole source contract with the District of Columbia government without opening that contract to the competitive bidding process, subject to exception. Requires any sequestration order to be applied to each account appropriating Federal funds in this Act (rather than to the aggregate total of those accounts) which is not specifically exempted from sequestration by specified Federal law. Provides for repayment to the Federal Treasury of any amounts appropriated and paid to the District of Columbia before a sequestration order is issued, applying the sequestration percentage proportionately to each account not specifically exempted from sequestration. Amends the District of Columbia Public Works Act of 1954 to authorize the District of Columbia to receive direct quarterly payments from the Federal Government for estimated Federal usage of D.C. water and sanitary sewer services from January 1, 1990, to December 31, 1990. Amends the District of Columbia Appropriation Act, 1982, to eliminate the prohibition against: (1) the promotion or operation of revenue-raising games of chance in the Old Georgetown Historic District; and (2) the promotion of such games on public transportation and at stations and stops. Authorizes the playing of such games in prohibited areas if they are sponsored by and conducted solely for the benefit of a tax-exempt organization. Requires that the D.C. Council receive written notice at least 30 days before funds appropriated for activities for which it has approved a specific budget increase are reprogrammed or reduced. Requires the District of Columbia to pay interest on its FY 1990 quarterly payments to the United States that are made more than 60 days after its receipt of an itemized statement from the Federal Bureau of Prisons of amounts due for housing D.C. convicts in Federal penitentiaries. Amends the District of Columbia Code (D.C. Code) to increase the number of associate judges in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia from 50 to 58. Directs the Secretary of Education to award certain appropriated funds to the consortium of institutions of higher education in the D.C. metropolitan area for the establishment of an academic research library which links the library and information resources of the universities participating in the consortium. Requires the Director of the Department of Human Services of the District of Columbia to establish the District of Columbia Task Force for Coordinated Service to Drug-Exposed Infants which shall develop, within one year of this Act's enactment, a plan for the most efficient and effective delivery of services to substance abusing pregnant women and infants who were exposed to maternal substance abuse during pregnancy. Deems it not to be an unlawful discriminatory practice in the District of Columbia for any school that is affiliated with a religious organization to deny: (1) the use of any facility service or benefit set aside for the practice or promotion of religion; or (2) the granting of any endorsement, approval, or recognition to individuals organized for, or engaged in, the promotion of any homosexual or heterosexual lifestyle or belief that is contrary to its religious doctrine."