"10/24/1990--Senate agreed to House amendment with amendment. Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1991 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Commerce\n    Department of Commerce Appropriations Act, 1991 - Makes FY 1991 appropriations to the Department of Commerce for: (1) general administration; (2) the Office of the Inspector General; (3) the Bureau of the Census; (4) economic and statistical analysis programs; (5) the Economic Development Administration; (6) the International Trade Administration; (7) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; (8) the Patent and Trademark Office; (9) the National Telecommunications and Information Administration; (10) export administration; (11) the Minority Business Development Agency; (12) the United States Travel and Tourism Administration; (13) the Technology Administration; and (14) the National Institute of Standards and Technology. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act to support the hurricane reconnaissance aircraft and activities that were under the control of the United States Air Force or the United States Air Force Reserve as of June 1, 1990. Prohibits the use of funds to reimburse the Unemployment Trust Fund or any other account of the Treasury to pay unemployment compensation for temporary census workers for services performed after April 20, 1990. Sets forth conditions under which foreign companies are eligible to receive assistance under the Advanced Technology program.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Justice\n    Department of Justice Appropriations Act, 1991 - Appropriates FY 1991 funds for: (1) legal activities; (2) programs of the Office of Justice; (3) general administration, including the Office of Inspector General; (4) the United States Parole Commission; (5) the Community Relations Service; (6) interagency law enforcement; (7) the Federal Bureau of Investigation; (8) the Drug Enforcement Administration; (9) the Immigration and Naturalization Service; and (10) the Federal Prison System. Makes funds available to convert the Department of Justice payroll/personnel system to the Department of Agriculture's National Finance Center payroll/personnel system. Directs the Federal Prison Industries, Incorporated to make contracts to carry out an independent market study that identifies new areas of business growth which will have a minimal impact on the private sector. Authorizes undercover investigative operations by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Drug Enforcement Administration. Makes funds unavailable to pay for an abortion except where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term or in the case of rape. Prohibits the use of funds to require any person to perform, or facilitate the performance of, any abortion. Prohibits the use of funds under this Act and from certain fund transfers for a National Drug Intelligence Center. Amends the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 to: (1) require charging all air passengers equally for immigration inspection services under the airport inspection user fee program; (2) score such fees as offsetting receipts; (3) require that all passengers be cleared within 45 minutes of their presentation for inspection; and (4) allow adjudications and naturalization fees. Establishes a pilot project under which a fee may be charged and collected for inspection services provided at land border points of entry. Requires the Attorney General to send the Congress annual financial statements on the Immigration User Fee and the Land Border Immigration Fee Accounts. Authorizes the use of condemnation procedures to resolve differences in the case involving the Iowa Power, Inc. and Redlands, Inc. concerning ownership within the proposed Walnut Creek National Wildlife Refuge. National Commission to Support Law Enforcement Act - Establishes the National Commission to Support Law Enforcement to study and report to the Congress on recommended changes regarding law enforcement agencies and issues on Federal, State, and local levels. Specifies areas of focus. Terminates the Commission after submission of its report. Prohibits contracting out of law enforcement and litigating activities without the specific approval of the Congress.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Department of State\n    Department of State Appropriations Act, 1991 - Appropriates FY 1991 funds for Department of State activities for the administration of foreign affairs, international organizations and conferences, and other specified items. Provides for transfers among accounts, with any resulting increases in appropriations limited to 35 percent. Amends the Department of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985 to authorize appropriations for a British American Parliamentary Group.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    The Judiciary\n    Judiciary Appropriations Act, 1991 - Appropriates FY 1991 funds for activities of the Judiciary, including: (1) the Supreme Court; (2) the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; (3) the U.S. Court of International Trade; (4) the Courts of Appeals, district courts, and judicial services; (5) the Administrative Office of the United States Courts; (6) the Federal Judicial Center; and (7) the U.S. Sentencing Commission. Makes funds available for the Judicial Conference of the United States to sponsor and host the Fifth International Appellate Judges Conference in the United States. Authorizes the Conference to prescribe reasonable fees for public access to case information through automatic data processing equipment.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates FY 1991 funds for: (1) the Advisory Commission on Conferences in Ocean Shipping; (2) the Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Jubilee Commission; (3) the Commission on Agricultural Workers; (4) the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution; (5) the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad; (6) the Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe; (7) the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency; (8) the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; (9) the Federal Maritime Commission; (10) the Japan-United States Friendship Commission; (11) the Marine Mammal Commission; (12) the Small Business Administration; (13) the State Justice Institute; (14) the Board for International Broadcasting; (15) the Commission on Civil Rights; (16) the Martin Luther King, Jr. Federal Holiday Commission; and (17) the United States Information Agency. Appropriates FY 1991 funds for: (1) operations of the Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation; (2) the Competitiveness Policy Council; (3) the Federal Communications Commission; (4) the Federal Trade Commission; (5) the International Trade Commission; (6) the Legal Services Corporation; (7) the Office of the United States Trade Representative; and (8) the Securities and Exchange Commission. Amends the Small Business Act to subject appointment of the Deputy Administrator to Senate confirmation. Amends the Business Opportunity Development Reform Act of 1988 to extend the pilot program which allows five (currently two) or more Indian tribes to enter joint ventures and participate in the set-aside program for minorities. Amends the Small Business Administration Reauthorization and Amendment Act of 1988 to extend through FY 1994 the provision which allows the Small Business Administration (SBA) to override State law and set the interest rate on a bank loan made as part of the funding for a project partially funded by the certified development company loan program. Amends the Small Business Act to authorize the Administrator to make grants to or contracts with any State for the purpose of contracting with small businesses to plant trees on land owned or controlled by the State or local government. Directs the Administrator to formulate a national small business tree planting program. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1994. Revises the Small Business Development Center Program. Restricts grants for Small Business Development Centers to institutions of higher education. Establishes a Central European Small Business Enterprise Development Commission to develop in Czechoslovakia, Poland, and Hungary a self-sustaining system to provide management and technical assistance to small business owners. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 through 1993. Amends the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to permit qualified State or local development companies to service deferred participation loans and to charge a reasonable fee for doing so. Establishes the Small Business Development Center Technical Assistance Program to increase access by small businesses to online data bases. Authorizes appropriations for FY 1991 and 1992. Continues the authority to make grants under economic development assistance programs. Amends the Small Business Computer Security and Education Act of 1984 to extend from October 1, 1990, through March 31, 1991, the authority of the SBA to cooperate with for-profit businesses in providing training and seminars for small firms.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth limitations and prohibitions on the use of funds appropriated by this Act. Requires FY 1991 pay raises to be absorbed within the levels appropriated in this Act. Sets forth administrative provisions relating to the Legal Services Corporation. Prohibits the use of funds to approve export licenses for supercomputers to any country whose government the President determines to be assisting Iraq to improve its ballistic missile technology or chemical, biological or nuclear weapons capability and so reports to the Congress."