"10/26/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment. Appropriates funds for FY 1990 for military construction operations administered by the Department of Defense (DOD) in specified amounts for: (1) military construction, Army; (2) military construction, Navy; (3) military construction, Air Force (including a rescission of funds); (4) military construction, defense agencies (including a specified transfer of funds and a rescission of a specified amount of budget authority for such account for FY 1989); (5) North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Infrastructure; (6) military construction, Army National Guard; (7) military construction, Air National Guard; (8) military construction, Army Reserve; (9) military construction, Naval Reserve; (10) military construction, Air Force Reserve; (11) family housing, Army; (12) family housing, Navy and Marine Corps; (13) family housing, Air Force; (14) family housing, defense agencies; (15) homeowners assistance fund, defense; and (16) the Department of Defense Base Closure Account. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for payments under certain cost-plus-a-fixed-fee contracts without specific approval by the Secretary of Defense. Authorizes funds appropriated in this Act to be used for: (1) the hire of passenger motor vehicles; and (2) advances to the Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation, for the construction of defense access roads. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for: (1) construction of new bases inside the continental United States for which specific appropriations have not been made; (2) the purchase of certain lands or easements for amounts in excess of 100 percent of their value as determined by the Corps of Engineers or the Naval Facilities Engineering Command, except under specified conditions; (3) acquisition, site preparation, or the installation of any utilities for family housing, except for housing for which funds have been made available under annual military construction appropriation Acts; (4) transferring or relocating any activity from one base or installation to another without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations; (5) the procurement of steel for any construction project or activity for which American steel producers have been denied the opportunity to compete; and (6) the performance of dredging work in the Indian Ocean by foreign contractors, with a specified exception. Prohibits the use of funds available for military construction and housing during FY 1989 to pay real property taxes in any foreign nation. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used for: (1) the initiation of a new installation overseas without prior notification to the Committees on Appropriations; (2) certain architect and engineer contracts for projects in Japan or in any NATO-member country, unless awarded to U.S. firms solely or in joint ventures; or (3) the award of any contract for military construction in the U.S. territories and possessions in the Pacific and on Kwajalein Island in excess of $1,000,000 to a foreign contractor, with specified exceptions. Directs the Secretary to notify the Senate and House Armed Services and Appropriations Committees of the plans and scope of any military exercise involving U.S. personnel 30 days prior to its occurrence if amounts expended for construction are expected to exceed $100,000. Transfers certain funds of the Military Family Housing Management Account to the appropriations for family housing provided in this Act. Prohibits more than 20 percent of the funds appropriated in this Act which are limited for obligation during the current fiscal year from being obligated during the last two months of the fiscal year. Makes certain prior year funds available for military construction authorized during the first session of the 101st Congress. Directs the Secretary, by February 15, 1990, to provide the Appropriations Committees with a report detailing the specific actions proposed to be taken by DOD during FY 1990 to encourage other members of NATO and Japan to assume a greater share of the common defense burden of such nations and the United States. Permits certain expired or lapsed funds to be used to pay certain overhead and other costs associated with military construction or family housing projects. Prohibits the expenditure of funds appropriated by this Act, except NATO infrastructure funds, for planning, design, or construction of military facilities or family housing to support the relocation of the 401st Tactical Fighter Wing from Spain to another country. Limits to four fiscal years after the original funding the time in which funds may be expended by a military department or defense agency for the construction of military projects, with certain conditions. Limits the amount of funds that may be obligated for the contract cleaning of military family housing units. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act from being used for new family housing units in the Republic of Korea in connection with any increase in accompanied tours after June 6, 1988. Prohibits any funds appropriated in this Act for planning and design from being used to initiate design of the Pentagon Annex. Absorbs within the levels appropriated in this Act necessary sums for FY 1990 pay raises for programs funded by this Act. Prohibits any of the funds appropriated in this Act from being available for study, planning, design, or architect and engineer services related to the relocation of Yongsan Garrison, Korea. Authorizes the Secretary of the Navy to sell to the State of Hawaii the Manana Storage Area and Pearl City Junction, both located in Pearl City, Oahu, Hawaii. Provides sale conditions for both parcels. Prohibits the Secretary from entering into a sales contract for either parcel until he has reported the details of the proposed transactions to the appropriate congressional committees and 21 days have elapsed since such notice."