"10/24/1990--Conference report filed in House. Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 1991- \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Military Personnel\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1991 for military and reserve personnel in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force and for National Guard personnel in the Army and Air Force. Prohibits a specified amount of funds appropriated under  \n    Title\n    I from being obligated or expended until authorized by law. Title II\n     - \n    Operation and Maintenance\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1991 for the operation and maintenance of the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, the defense agencies (including a transfer of funds), the respective reserve components, and the Army and Air National Guards. Appropriates funds for the Army's National Board for the Promotion of Rifle Practice, the Court of Military Appeals, environmental restoration (including a transfer of funds), and for humanitarian assistance. Prohibits a specified amount of funds appropriated under  \n    Title\n    II from being obligated or expended until authorized by law. Title III\n     - \n    Procurement\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1991 for the procurement by the Army of aircraft, missiles, weapons, tracked combat vehicles and ammunition and for other procurement. Appropriates funds to the Navy for the procurement of aircraft, weapons, and shipbuilding and conversion and for other procurement. Appropriates funds for Marine Corps procurement. Appropriates funds for procurement by the Air Force of aircraft and missiles and for other procurement. Appropriates funds for: (1) National Guard and Reserve equipment; (2) procurement by the defense agencies; and (3) Defense Production Act purchases. Prohibits a specified amount of funds appropriated under  \n    Title\n    III from being obligated or expended until authorized by law. Title IV\n     - \n    Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1991 for research, development, test, and evaluation by the Army, Navy, Air Force, and defense agencies. Appropriates funds for the expenses of the Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering (Test and Evaluation) and the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation. Prohibits a specified amount of funds appropriated under this title from being obligated or expended until authorized by law. Permits funds appropriated under this title to be made available for a grant to, or contract with, a college or university for research or development without regard to requirements for use of competitive procedures.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Revolving and Management Funds\n    Appropriates funds for the Army, Air Force, and Defense stock funds and for the Army, Navy, and Defense industrial funds.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Other Department of Defense Appropriations\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) the destruction of the U.S. stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions; (2) drug interdiction and counter-drug activities of the Department of Defense (DOD) (including a transfer of funds); and (3) the Office of the Inspector General for carrying out the provisions of the Inspector General Act of 1978.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) the Central Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System Fund; and (2) the Intelligence Community Staff.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Prohibits the use of appropriations for unauthorized publicity or propaganda. Exempts DOD personnel from provisions of law prohibiting the employment of non-U.S. citizens during FY 1991. Earmarks DOD funds appropriated under this Act for the Overseas Workload Program. Allows any contract awarded during FY 1991 or thereafter to be performed in the theater (country) in which the equipment or firm is located. Requires the Secretary to report on the nature of the maintenance, repair, and overhaul work of DOD performed under the Program. Considers Israel to be in the European Theater in every respect for purposes of eligibility for the awarding of contracts under the Program. Requires the Secretary to work with Israel to identify new specialized capabilities in depot maintenance and repair for which it is uniquely suited. Prohibits FY 1991 funds appropriated for the Program from being used for contracts which have not been opened for competition. Provides that no part of any appropriation contained in this Act may remain available for obligation beyond the current fiscal year, unless expressly so provided. Prohibits the obligation of more than 20 percent of the funds appropriated by this Act during the last two months of the fiscal year, except as specified. Prohibits the use of appropriations for the procurement of any food, clothing, specified cloth (including cotton, silk, and wool) or synthetic fabrics, or specified metals not grown, produced, or processed within the United States, with specified exceptions. Authorizes the Secretary of Defense, in the national interest and with the approval of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), to transfer and merge specified working capital funds. Directs the Secretary to notify the Congress of all such transfers. Limits the cash balances which may be maintained in such funds. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for: (1) the purchase of coal or coke from foreign nations for use at U.S. defense facilities when U.S. coal is available; (2) heating plant fuel conversion at defense facilities in Europe; (3) the conversion of any heating facility at a specified military installation in the Kaiserslautern Military Community in Germany, except as provided under Federal law and after a certain notification from the Secretary to the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations; (4) the initiation of a special access program without prior notification to the appropriations and armed services committees; (5) the preparation of a request to the appropriations committees for a reprogramming of funds, except as specified; (6) certain claims for physician or provider reimbursement for medical services provided under the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) in excess of FY 1990 amounts for similar services; (7) programs of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) beyond FY 1991, with a specified exception; (8) initiating a multiyear contract that employs economic order quantity procurement in excess of specified amounts, unless proper congressional notification is given; (9) any intelligence or special activity different from an activity previously justified to the Congress unless the Secretary has notified the appropriations committees of the intent to make such funds available for such activity; or (10) converting certain military technician positions to positions to be held by persons in active Guard or Reserve status if such conversion would reduce the number of military technicians below a specified amount. Eliminates during FY 1991 the requirement that the Congress must authorize by law the end-strengths for civilian personnel in DOD. Prohibits setting any end-strength limitations for such personnel during FY 1991. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for: (1) congressional lobbying; (2) the pay of certain nonmilitary Army Reserve technicians; (3) purchasing dogs or cats to study the medical treatment of wounds; and (4) the floating storage of petroleum or petroleum products in non-U.S. vessels. Permits the appropriation of funds for humanitarian and civic assistance costs incident to authorized operations of the armed forces. Authorizes the Secretaries of the Army and the Air Force to retain in active status until age 60 certain officers who need such status in order to maintain employment as a National Guard or Reserve technician. Permits the use of operation and maintenance funds provided under this Act for studies and demonstration projects relating to the delivery of military health and medical care. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act to make contributions to the Department of Defense Education Benefits Fund for educational assistance for a member of the armed forces who enlists for less than three years or receives an enlistment bonus. Applies such prohibition only to active components of the Army. Prohibits the use of funds appropriated by this Act for the basic pay and allowances of a member of the Army participating as a full-time student and receiving benefits through the Secretary of Veterans Affairs when time spent as a full-time student is credited toward completion of a service commitment. Applies such prohibition only to active components of the Army. Limits the availability of appropriations to specified percentages of postsecondary educational costs for off-duty training of military personnel. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for conversion to contractor performance of an activity or function of DOD that is currently performed by more than ten civilian DOD employees until a cost-analysis on such performance is completed and certified to the appropriations committees. Prohibits the use of funds for the procurement of 120mm mortars or ammunition for such mortars if manufactured outside the United States. Prohibits the use of Army appropriations for depot maintenance of equipment unless the civilian personnel strengths at Army depots performing communications-electronics depot maintenance are greater than the strengths assigned those depots on September 30, 1985, with specified exceptions. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for the payment of salaries of any persons who authorize the transfer of unobligated funds and deobligated funds into the Reserve for Contingencies of the CIA. Requires funds appropriated under this Act for CIA construction projects to remain available until expended. Authorizes the Secretary of the Navy to use specified funds to charter ships for use as auxiliary minesweepers, under specified conditions. Limits the amount of funds available from this Act for the execution of a contract for the CHAMPUS Reform Initiative. Permits the use of appropriated funds to fully utilize the facilities at the U.S. Army Engineer's Waterways Experiment Station, with a specified exception. Prohibits funds appropriated under this Act from being used by a military department to modify an aircraft, weapon, ship, or other item of equipment that the department plans to retire or otherwise dispose of within five years after completion of the modification. Specifies the definition of \"program, project, and activity\" for appropriations contained in this Act for purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act). Earmarks specified funds appropriated to the Army under this Act for the Reserve Component Automation System (RCAS), with certain expenditure limitations. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for fixed-price contracts exceeding $10,000,000 for the development of a major defense system or subsystem, unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and the Secretary of Defense take certain action. Provides that monetary limitations on the purchase price of passenger motor vehicles shall not apply to vehicles purchased for certain intelligence activities. Earmarks specified funds for the construction of classified military projects within the continental United States. Prohibits the use of appropriated funds for the procurement of welded shipboard anchor and mooring chains manufactured outside the United States. Authorizes DOD to transfer prior-year unobligated balances to the operations and maintenance appropriations of the reserve components in order to provide military technician pay the same exemption from the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act as is currently granted to other military personnel accounts, with specified exceptions. Prohibits any funds available to the Department of the Navy from being used to enter into any contract for the overhaul, repair, or maintenance of any naval vessel on the west coast which includes interport differential charges as a factor for the award of such contract. Prohibits funds available under this Act for CHAMPUS from being used to reimburse any health care provider for inpatient mental health care or residential treatment care services in excess of specified amounts per calendar year or for care received from a medical or health care professional having an economic interest in the facility to which the patient is referred. Prohibits this Act's funds from being obligated or expended for the procurement of specified remote sensing data, except by the Defense Mapping Agency. Requires the designs of specified military aircraft to incorporate certain standard avionics specifications by no later than 1998. Transfers specified funds from this Act to the Coast Guard to be used for Coast Guard family housing. Directs the Secretary to make specified amounts available to the Coast Guard for certain operational support, exclusive of administrative costs. Authorizes the Secretary, during FY 1991, to finance the operational and administrative costs related to the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund from unobligated balances available in such Fund. Directs the Secretary to ensure that at least 50 percent of the polyacrylonitrile carbon fiber requirement be procured from domestic sources by 1992. Provides for the accounting treatment of expenses incurred by the United States in monitoring Soviet implementation of the INF Treaty. Reduces the total amount appropriated to DOD by this Act to reflect savings resulting from the decreased use of consulting services by DOD. Limits the amount of funds appropriated by this Act that may be obligated or expended for the procurement of advisory or assistance services by DOD. Provides funds from this Act for transportation for the next-of-kin of individuals who have been prisoners of war or missing in action from the Vietnam era to an annual meeting in the United States. Requires limited funds to be available to the Air Force to execute the cleanup of uncontrolled hazardous waste contamination affecting a sale parcel of land at Hamilton Air Force Base, California. Provides for the return of deposit if the purchaser of such parcel exercises the option to withdraw from its sale. Provides reimbursement to the Air Force after a sale is completed for cleanup expenditures in excess of a specified amount. Prohibits funds available to the Department of the Navy from being used to implement certain automated data processing or information technology facility consolidation plans or to make reductions or transfers of personnel in connection with such plans in southeast Louisiana until a congressional notification requirement has been met by the Secretary. Prohibits funds from this Act from being used for offshore procurement of second or third generation night vision image intensifier tubes and devices, with specified exceptions. Prohibits DOD funds from being used for the B-1B's ALQ-161-A CORE programs unless the Congress has received notification in advance. Requires the U.S. Air Force to indemnify the State of New Hampshire, its political subdivisions, lenders, officers, agents, and employees from all actions and liability arising out of releases or threatened releases of hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants resulting from DOD base closure activities at Pease Air Force Base, New Hampshire. Prohibits funds from this Act from being obligated or expended to prepare, or to assist any defense contractor in preparing, any material with respect to economic or employment impact in a State of an acquisition program for which all research, development, testing and evaluation has not been completed. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being available for a contract for studies, analyses, or consulting services entered into without competition on the basis of an unsolicited proposal unless the head of the activity responsible for the procurement makes certain determinations with respect to such contract. Prohibits the use of DOD funds under this Act to dispose of specified unserviceable M1 rifles and carbines. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to pay more than 50 percent of a lump-sum reenlistment bonus. Makes funds available from this Act to DOD for granting civilian employees paid administrative leave as part of a productivity-based incentive awards program. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to assign a supervisor's title or grade when the number of people he or she supervises is considered as a basis for such determination. Earmarks funds for: (1) Naval Aviation Depots to perform manufacturing in order to compete for production contracts of defense articles; and (2) the payment of bonuses to Army, Navy, and Air Force nurses. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act for CHAMPUS from being used for payment of the first $150 of the charges for all types of care authorized for active-duty military personnel and their dependents. Prohibits funds made available by this Act from being used by DOD to exceed a specified number of civilian workyears for FY 1991 outside the United States. Prohibits Navy funds appropriated by this or any other Act from being used to carry out an electromagnetic pulse program in the Chesapeake Bay area in connection with the Electromagnetic Pulse Radiation Environment Simulator for Ships (EMPRESS) program until the Secretary has made certain certifications to the Congress concerning the importance of such program. Requires certain DOD construction or service contracts to include a provision requiring the contractor to employ local employees in performing that portion of the contract that occurs within such State or area, as long as such individuals possess or would be able to easily acquire the necessary skills to perform such tasks. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to support any DOD activity that procures malt beverages and wine with nonappropriated funds for resale on a military installation in the United States, unless such beverages are procured in the State (or District of Columbia) in which the military installation is located. Directs the Secretary to make specified transfers from general to specific defense programs within the Navy. Reduces the total amount appropriated to DOD by this Act to reflect savings resulting from increased use of discount air fares by Government employees. Earmarks specified DOD funds for National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowships to be awarded by the Secretary to U.S. citizens or nationals pursuing advanced degrees in fields of primary concern and interest to DOD. Authorizes the Secretary to acquire the modification, depot maintenance, and repair of aircraft, vehicles, and vessels and the production of components and other defense articles through competition between DOD depot maintenance activities and private firms. Limits the funds available for a health care demonstration project regarding chiropractic care required by the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1985. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to pay health care providers under CHAMPUS for services determined to be not medically or psychologically necessary. Provides that, in order to increase collections from third party payers of reasonable health care services given to military retirees and dependents under CHAMPUS, net receipts from such collections shall be made available to the local facility of the uniformed services responsible for the collections and shall be over and above that facility's direct budget amount. Requires sums necessary for FY 1991 pay raises for programs funded by this Act to be absorbed within the levels appropriated by this Act. Earmarks specified funds from this Act for contract incentive payments authorized under the Indian Financing Act of 1974. Prohibits funds available in this Act from being used for: (1) payments under a DOD contract with the Louisiana State University Medical Center involving the use of cats for wound research; (2) conducting bone trauma research at the Letterman Army Institute of Research until the Secretary of the Army makes certain certifications; or (3) procuring air circuit breakers for U.S. naval vessels unless such circuit breakers are essentially produced or manufactured in the United States. Restores certain previously transferred and unobligated balances to the appropriation from which they were originally transferred. Cancels the balances of such unobligated funds 30 days after enactment of this Act. Requires the Secretary to include in any base closure and realignment plan submitted to the Congress a complete review for FY 1990 through 1994, which includes specified information relating to force structures and cost savings after such closure or realignment. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used to reduce the FY 1991 truck maintenance workload at, or to transfer towed and self-propelled artillery maintenance from, Letterkenny Army Depot. Limits the amount of funds to be used for any single relocation of an organization, unit, activity, or function of DOD into or within the National Capital Region. Provides for the waiver of such limitation in certain cases. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used for: (1) producing more than two-thirds of the liquid gas requirements in-house at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam; and (2) reducing the end strength and force structure of DOD reserve components below the levels funded in this Act. Allows appropriated funds to be used for the pay, allowances, and benefits of Federal or District of Columbia employees who are members of the reserve or National Guard, who perform Federal or military service to enforce the law or to provide assistance to civil authorities in the protection or saving of life or property, and who request and are granted leave. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act from being used to: (1) perform any cost study pursuant to Office of Management and Budget Circular A-76 if the study exceeds specified periods; or (2) begin closing a military medical treatment facility unless the Secretary notifies the appropriations committees. Earmarks specified funds to DOE for final decontamination and decommissioning of the Nuclear Fuel Facility in Apollo, Pennsylvania, by January 1, 1993. Prohibits funds appropriated by this Act for the American Forces Information Service from being used for any national or international political or psychological activities. Transfers all the authority of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences to the Secretary of Defense. Makes the Board an advisory board to the Secretary. Requires, where cost effective, all DOD software to be written in the programming language Ada after June 1, 1991, in the absence of a special exemption. Directs the National Defense Stockpile Manager to obligate specified funds during FY 1991 out of the National Defense Stockpile Transaction Fund for use in precompetitive technology development cooperative projects. Directs the Secretary to adjust wage rates for civilian employees hired for certain health care occupations as authorized by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Directs the Secretary to issue directives promoting energy conservation in all peacetime DOD activities. Requires an energy consumption reduction report from DOD to the Congress. Directs the President to acquire over a ten-year period a specified amount of depleted uranium to be held in the National Defense Stockpile. Limits the permanent change of station moves of active military personnel ashore to Europe which may be funded by appropriations from this Act. Prohibits DOD funds from being used for the training or utilization of psychologists in the prescription of drugs, except pursuant to findings and recommendations of the Army Surgeon General's Blue Ribbon Panel. Prohibits funds appropriated in this Act from being used to reduce the military and civilian work force at any military medical facility or medical support facility below the level maintained or authorized for FY 1990. Earmarks specified funds to the Secretary of the: (1) Navy for the design and construction of a parliament building in the Solomon Islands; and (2) Army for the repair, improvement, and construction of port facilities and harbor improvements on specified islands in American Samoa. Makes certain congressional notification requirements inapplicable with respect to the transfer by the Secretary of the Navy of the obsolete destroyer USS Turner Joy to the Bremerton Historic Ships Association. Earmarks specified Navy aircraft procurement funds for the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft program. Rescinds specified funds as provided in DOD appropriation Acts. Prohibits the use of DOD funds from this Act for the Ground-Wave Emergency Network System until the Secretary completes a report to the defense committees on the health and environmental impact such system would have on surrounding local jurisdictions. Establishes the National Commission on Defense and National Security to analyze and make recommendations to the President and the Congress concerning national security and defense policies. Outlines global, political, economic, and military goals, developments, and activities to be analyzed by the Commission. Requires annual reports to the President and the Congress. Requires the Secretary to initially fund the Commission until funds are specifically appropriated for such purpose. Prohibits funds appropriated in this or any subsequent Act from being used to support an end strength level of U.S. forces stationed in Japan at any level in excess of 50,000. Reduces such end strength level annually by 5,000 if Japan has not agreed for such year to offset the direct costs incurred by the United States for military personnel in Japan. Expresses the sense of the Congress that all those countries that share the benefits of international security and stability should share in the responsibility for such stability and security commensurate with their national capabilities. Recognizes that Japan has pledged financial support to support the U.N. Security Council resolutions on Iraq and that Japan has a greater economic capability to contribute to international security and stability. Encourages Japan to contribute commensurate with that capability. Reduces the Operations and Maintenance accounts and revolving and management funds by a specified amount which represents inapplicable inventories. Prohibits this Act's funds from being used to transport or provide for the transportation of chemical munitions to the Johnston Atoll for the purpose of storing or demilitarizing such munitions. Appropriates funds for the modernization and expansion of automated data processing systems. Prohibits funds available in this or any other Act from being available for further studies on the feasibility of removal and transportation of unitary chemical weapons from the eight chemical storage sites within the continental United States. Makes funds appropriated to DOD in FY 1991 available to establish and maintain a stockpile in Israel for petroleum fuels for military purposes. Authorizes the President to permit Israel to draw upon such fuel reserves in appropriate circumstances. Gives the Classified Annex (prepared to accompany the conference report on this Act which provides classified appropriations) the force and effect of law as if enacted. States that amounts specified in the Annex are not in addition to amounts appropriated by this Act. Directs the President to distribute such Annex, as appropriate. Earmarks specified funds from this Act for: (1) the Civil Air Patrol; (2) operation of the Air Force education and training facility known as the Inter-American Air Force Academy; (3) certain allied cooperation enhancement studies with respect to U.S.-Israeli military cooperation and joint technologies; and (4) transporting U.S. beef for resale in DOD commissaries in foreign countries. Prohibits funds appropriated or made available in this Act from being used to reduce or disestablish the operation of the Air Force and Air Force Reserve WC-130 weather reconnaisance squadrons, except to transfer the mission to the Air Force Reserve. States that, of the funds appropriated by this Act for the procurement of supplies or services, qualified nonprofit agencies for the blind and other severely handicapped shall be afforded maximum opportunity to participate as subcontractors and suppliers in the performance of contracts let by DOD. Earmarks specified Navy funds for the expenses of the Kahoolawe Island Commission. Prohibits funds from being made available to any military department to conduct bombing training, gunnery training, or similar munitions delivery training on Kahoolawe Island, Hawaii. Directs the Secretary to establish the Legacy Resource Management Program for the identification and management of all biological, geophysical, and historical resources existing on, or involving, all DOD lands, facilities, and property. Earmarks specified funds for such Program. Earmarks specified funds for the acquisition of jewel bearings from the William Langer Jewel Bearing Plant. Prohibits funds available in this Act from being used to support and maintain more than a specified number of U.S. military personnel permanently assigned ashore in Europe on September 30, 1991. Directs the Secretary to design a comprehensive strategy to involve military and civilian employees of DOD in partnership programs (cooperative efforts between the military and an educational institution to enhance the education of students) with elementary and secondary schools. Prevents a specified amount of funds appropriated to the U.S. Naval Academy from being obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Navy has reported to the defense committees on certain corrective measures with respect to administration, ethics, and intercollegiate sports at the Academy. Prohibits FY 1991 DOD funds from being obligated for research and development for the space-based wide area surveillance project in the Air Force's space surveillance technology program element and for the Navy's program addressing the same requirements. Prohibits funds from this Act from being available for compensation of military or civilian personnel assigned to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict in excess of the number of personnel assigned to such Office as of September 30, 1990. Earmarks specified funds from this Act for the National Drug Intelligence Center. Authorizes the Department of the Army to use specified funds in labor, equipment, and supplies at Fort Sill to assist the Department of Labor in replacing an earth dam. Prohibits funds available in FY 1991 to DOD or any other Federal department or agency from being obligated or expended to complete a cost comparison study for the contracting out of firefighting or security guard functions at Indian Springs Aif Force Auxiliary Field. Authorizes funds available to DOD to be transferred to the Secretary to repair or replace property, facilities, equipment, and other DOD assets damaged by Hurricane Hugo in September, 1989. Directs the Secretary to submit to the Congress a detailed accounting: (1) of the monetary and military contributions provided to the United States for the support of Operation Desert Shield, to the United Nations in support of its embargo against Iraq, and to other bilateral and multilateral operations and efforts to counter Iraqi aggression in the Persian Gulf region; and (2) of the level of revenues from the sale of oil that continue to accrue to OPEC countries. Expresses the sense of the Congress that contributions from other upper income and industrialized countries should be primarily in the form of monetary contributions. Authorizes the President during FY 1991, in exercising his authority to order to active duty members of the Selected Reserve, to use such authority in the case of Operation Desert Shield and in operations in the Arabian Peninsula as if the limit on the length for such call-up were 180 days instead of the current authorized 90-day limitation. States that this exception applies only to Selected Reserve combat units. Makes general definitional revisions to the Act of January 2, 1976 (an Act which makes various amendments to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act). Earmarks specified Army Operations and Maintenance funds for the environmental protection program at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. Expresses the sense of the Congress that U.S. participation in a multinational antinarcotics strike force should include the full range of appropriate law enforcement and anti-drug agencies and that such strike force should be aided by multilateral intelligence-sharing and law enforcement personnel training, as well as other multilateral support. Authorizes funds made available in this Act for DOD drug interdiction activities to be used for purposes of aiding such strike force. Expresses the sense of the Congress that the President should negotiate with the Group of Seven (the United Kingdom, France, Italy, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, and the European Community) to conclude agreements providing for: (1) a commonly accepted methodology for measuring relative rates of expenditures on common security objectives by each Member; (2) commonly accepted calculations of current rates of expenditures on common security objectives by each Member; and (3) a framework, agenda, and timetable of actions by each Member to converge substantially their aggregate rates of expenditures on common security objectives as a proportion of national income over a reasonable, finite period. States that the President should report to the Congress on the progress on reaching a common security objective agreement. Authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to use necessary sums to erect in the Canaveral National Seashore a suitable bronze marker to commemorate the leadership of Congressman Bill Chappell in the establishment of the Seashore. Earmarks specified Navy funds appropriated by this Act for an evaluation of the Assault Ballistic Rocket System. Directs the Secretary of the Treasury to pay specified sums to: (1) Shipco General, an Idaho corporation, for all liability arising out of the termination of a contract at Kirtland Air Force Base, New Mexico, for housing rehabilitation; and (2) John Barren of Peckville, Pennsylvania, for damages incurred as the result of the failure of health care employees at the medical center of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, to admit and treat him properly for a service-connected psychiatric condition. Specifies that, in each case, no more than ten percent of the sum appropriated for such claim shall be paid to any agent or attorney for services rendered in connection with the claim. Provides fines for violations of such limitation. Appropriates additional funds for military personnel in title I and the CHAMPUS program in title II of this Act. Authorizes funds appropriated in this Act for the Advanced Tactical Fighter program to be obligated for full-scale development without regard to obligational limitations with respect to such program prescribed in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Desert Shield Supplemental Appropriations\n    Appropriates specified funds for transfer from the Defense Cooperation Account to operation and maintenance appropriations of DOD to reimburse incremental expenditures arising from actions in support of Operation Desert Shield, to be merged with and available for similarly appropriated funds."