"7/20/1990--Passed House amended. Equity and Excellence in Education Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Readiness\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that all children in the United States will start school ready to learn): (1) to provide, by 1994, Head Start services to every eligible child who needs them; (2) to provide, by 1994, sufficient funding for the special supplemental food program for women, infants, and children (WIC) so that all potentially eligible individuals have access to it; and (3) to expand, by 1995, funding for Even Start to allow programs to reach all parts of the United States and allow each State to fund a sufficient number of its programs to make approaches available for adoption and implementation by local educational agencies (LEAs), the State educational agency (SEA), and other organizations.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    School Completion\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that the high school graduation rate will increase to at least 90 percent): (1) to expand, by 1995, funding for secondary school dropout prevention and reentry programs and basic skills programs to allow them to reach all parts of the United States and in sufficient numbers within each State; and (2) to collect uniform, reliable data from the States on school completion rates. Amends the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA) to require the National Center for Education Statistics to ensure that its annual report on the national survey of dropout and retention rates contains nationally comparable and uniform data by State.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Student Achievement\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that students will attain demonstrable competency over specified subject matter and be prepared for responsible citizenship, further learning, and productive employment): (1) to provide remedial assistance to all disadvantaged children in the United States by increasing to 100 percent by FY 1993 participation of eligible children in specified programs under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA); (2) to provide 40 percent of the costs of educating children with disabilities by the year 2000, and at least 25 percent by 1995; (3) to reward successful programs in schools with concentrations of disadvantaged children; and (4) to promote student involvement in activities demonstrating good citizenship, community service, and personal responsibility. \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Presidential Schools of Distinction\n    Presidential Schools of Distinction Act - Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to establish the Presidential Schools of Distinction Program to recognize and reward public and private elementary and secondary schools that have made substantial progress in: (1) raising student educational achievement; (2) creating a safe and alcohol- and drug-free school environment; and (3) reducing the dropout rate. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes State educational agencies (SEAs) to designate as a Presidential School of Distinction any public or private elementary or secondary school nominated through procedures established by the SEA. Sets forth requirements for selection criteria established by the Secretary of Education (the Secretary) and by SEAs. Directs the SEAs to establish State review panels to assist in such selection. Provides that each Presidential School of Distinction will be awarded a Presidential Certificate of Distinction, as well as funds to further its educational program. Sets forth allowable uses of such funds. Prohibits Federal, State, or local reduction of other assistance to a school because it receives such an award. Directs the Secretary to: (1) evaluate Presidential Schools of Distinction biennially; and (2) submit information on successful Presidential Schools of Distinction programs to the National Diffusion Network for possible dissemination.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Law-Related Education Programs\n    Amends ESEA to direct the Secretary to carry out a program, entitled \"We the People... The Citizen and the Constitution,\" to educate students about the history and principles of the Constitution and Bill of Rights and to foster civic competence and civil responsibility, by continuing and expanding the educational activities of the National Bicentennial Competition of the Constitution and Bill of Rights administered by the Center for Civic Education. Authorizes the Secretary to contract with such Center to carry out such program. Sets forth program content, including the simulated congressional hearings, to be made available to public and private elementary and secondary schools. Allows surplus funds to be used for advanced training of teachers about the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Authorizes appropriations. Revises provisions for the law-related education program with respect to priorities and durations of grant awards, and review of grant applications by a panel of experts.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Amendments to Other Education Programs\n    Amends the Bilingual Education Act to authorize reservation of a specified maximum amount of funds for developmental bilingual education projects and special alternative instructional projects in middle school grades, with emphasis on the arts and humanities, site-based decision-making, magnet schools, community involvement, and collaboration with local colleges. Amends ESEA to add to those programs which may be established through the Secretary's Fund for Innovation in Education programs for improving the educational performance of and employment opportunities available for underachieving students. Authorizes the Secretary to make grants and contracts with LEAs for such programs, with specified priorities.  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    Academic Areas of National Importance\n    Amends the Foreign Language Assistance Act of 1988 (in part B, title II of ESEA) to provide for teacher training and instructional materials. Authorizes the Secretary to provide matching grants to States, through SEAs, for foreign language institutes for professional development and retraining of elementary and secondary school teachers in foreign languages, foreign cultures, and international studies. Sets forth program participation requirements and bypass provisions. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary to provide competitive grants to qualified SEAs and LEAs, higher education institutions, private nonprofit foreign language organizations, nonprofit education associations, or consortia of such entities to act as resource centers to: (1) coordinate development and dissemination of foreign language and culture instructional materials; and (2) expand use of technology in teaching foreign languages and culture at the elementary and secondary school levels. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Mathematics and Science\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that U.S. students will be first in the world in mathematics and science achievement): (1) to expand funding for the Dwight D. Eisenhower Mathematics and Science Foundation Act by the year 2000, so that all elementary and secondary teachers of mathematics and science will have an opportunity to update and improve their education skills, and, by the year 1995, so that all elementary school teachers have an opportunity to improve their skills; and (2) to award scholarships to high-achieving students to pursue the study of mathematics, science, and related subjects at postsecondary institutions. Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to establish the National Science Scholarships Program to recognize student excellence and achievement in the physical, life, and computer sciences, mathematics, and engineering. Authorizes the Secretary to award scholarships to outstanding students selected as National Science Scholars by the President. Allows the students who satisfy certain requirements to receive such scholarships for the first year of undergraduate study and, if they satisfy additional requirements, additional scholarships to cover the remaining undergraduate years. Directs the Secretary to appoint a panel of experts to recommend academic achievement criteria for use in the nomination of scholars. Sets forth requirements for initial and continuation awards. Sets the scholarship amount at $5,000 for an academic year, but reduces such amount based on cost of attendance and other grant or scholarship assistance, and adjusts for insufficient appropriation. Requires that scholarship recipients, to the extent they are otherwise qualified, be given priority consideration for federally financed summer employment in research and development centers. Establishes a science career scholarship program, to be carried out by the Secretary of Education and the Director of the National Science Foundation and to be known as the Robert Noyce Mathematics and Science Teacher Corps scholarship program. Provides for: (1) an initial scholarship award for one academic year of undergraduate study toward a baccalaureate in physical, life, or computer science; (2) a first continuation award for another year of such study; and (3) a second continuation award for those who have completed the baccalaureate but who require additional education courses for teacher certification. Requires scholarship recipients to commit to: (1) teaching service in elementary or secondary school science or mathematics for at least two years for each year of scholarship aid, up to a maximum of four years' service; or (2) a career option of two years of service in such science, mathematics, or engineering related employment for certain U.S.-connected corporations, or postgraduate education in such fields, or a combination of such employment or education. Requires repayment in cases of noncompliance. Authorizes appropriations. Makes persons convicted of certain controlled substance and other felony offenses ineligible for assistance under this title, and requires such persons to repay any such assistance already received. Directs the National Science Foundation to report to the Congress within one year on current efforts to improve the quality of elementary and secondary mathematics and science education and career potential for the underprivileged through joint efforts of business, school districts, and higher education institutions, with recommendations for Federal encouragement of such efforts.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Family Literacy and Lifelong Learning\n    Literacy for All Americans Act of 1990 - Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that every American will be literate, and possess knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy, and exercise their citizenship): (1) to provide all workers and adults opportunity to acquire skills to function productively; (2) to establish programs for large-scale public private partnerships in workforce literacy; (3) to provide for teacher training and instructional technologies to increase the number of learners served and the rate and extent of learning; (4) to provide easy access to model program information by teachers, community-based organizations, volunteers, and business; (5) to help build State capacity to assist large numbers of adults and families; and (6) to promote the pursuit of lifelong learning by all individuals in the United States by providing essential support for the Nation's system of public school, academic, and research libraries. \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Literacy: Strategic Planning, Research, and Coordination\n    Subpart 1: National Planning, Research and Coordination - Establishes an Interagency Task Force on Literacy. Requires the Task Force to report to the Congress and the President. Establishes the National Institute for Literacy. Gives the Institute certain responsibilities for research, technical assistance and training, policy analysis, and information. Establishes the National Institute for Literacy Governing Board. Establishes within the Institute the National Workplace Literacy Assistance Collaborative to improve the basic skills of the currently employed, especially those marginally employed with low basic skills and limited opportunity for long-term employment and advancement. Establishes a grants program to assist small and medium-sized businesses, business associations, and labor organizations to develop and implement literacy programs tailored to workplace and workforce needs. Requires an annual report to the Congress and the President. Authorizes appropriations. Subpart 2: State Planning, Research, and Coordination - Amends the Adult Education Act (AEA) to revise provisions relating to State coordination of adult literacy programs, State literacy coordination plans, and evaluation. Directs the Secretary to make grants for a network of State or regional adult literacy resource centers. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Investment in Literacy\n    Amends the Adult Education Act (AEA) to extend the authorization of appropriations for AEA programs. Revises provisions for local applications for use of State grant funds to remove requirements for consultation with local educational agencies (LEAs) as a precondition for awarding such funds to other public or private nonprofit agencies, organizations, and institutions (including community-based organizations and postsecondary educational institutions). Requires States to: (1) ensure that all potential applicants have a fair opportunity to apply and be considered for such assistance; and (2) consider specified factors in making such awards. Allows basic State grants under AEA to be used for competitive two-year Gateway Grants to public housing authorities for literacy programs and related activities. Revises procedures for evaluation of AEA grant recipients. Includes under AEA provisions for demonstration projects: (1) development and expansion of innovative programs; and (2) support for statewide volunteer technical assistance activities. Requires a State to have in effect a mandatory functional literacy program for individuals in State correctional institutions, as a condition for a State to receive certain AEA funding. Requires such a program to be in effect in: (1) at least one such institution in the State within two years after enactment of this Act; and (2) in all such institutions in the State within five years after such enactment. Authorizes the Secretary to make matching challenge grants to States for investment in adult literacy instruction staff training and educational technology. Authorizes appropriations. Establishes a Literacy Leader Training Fund. Directs the Secretary of Education, through the Office on Literacy, to make scholarship grants from the Fund to individuals pursuing careers in adult education, instruction, management, research, or innovation, for education or research to expand their expertise. Authorizes appropriations. Amends the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA) to provide specified U.S. territories with funding under the Even Start program.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Business Leadership for Employment Skills\n    Authorizes the Secretary of Labor to carry out a national workforce literacy strategies program of grants for up to 70 percent of the costs of joint ventures between business, industry, or labor and State, regional, or Federal entities to provide large-scale models in strategic approaches to improving basic skills of workforce sectors. Authorizes appropriations. Authorizes the Secretary (of Education) to make competitive grants to pay half of the costs of adult education programs which increase commercial drivers' skills necessary to complete the knowledge test requirements under the Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1986. Includes among eligible grantees: (1) private employers of commercial drivers; (2) postsecondary education institutions; (3) apprentice training programs; and (4) labor organizations that have commercial drivers as members. Requires grantees to refer individuals identified as having literacy skill problems to appropriate adult education programs. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Safe, Disciplined, and Drug-Free Schools\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that every U.S. school be free of drugs and violence and offer a disciplined environment conducive to learning) to expand funding, by 1993, for the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act of 1986 to ensure that all students receive drug abuse prevention education and counseling services.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Teacher Recruitment and Retention\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that there will be a well-qualified teacher in every U.S. classroom and that these teachers will reflect the general population's demographic make-up): (1) to recruit talented individuals into the teaching profession, especially minority group members; (2) to ensure that current teachers continually develop their teaching skills and subject matter knowledge; (3) to reward successful teachers and encourage them to further enhance their skills; and (4) encourage qualified professionals in other fields to enter the teaching profession. \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Teacher Recruitment and Retention\n    21st Century Teachers' Act - Declares it to be the policy of the United States that, by the year 2000 or earlier, there will be a well-qualified teacher in every classroom. Subpart 1: Loans Incentives for Teaching - Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to establish a separate fund for teachers under the National Defense Student Loan (NDSL) program. Authorizes appropriations for separate capital contributions to NDSL student loan funds. Requires a student, in order to receive a loan from the special account, to: (1) have completed two undergraduate years; (2) intend to pursue a teaching career; and (3) agree to certain repayment conditions if the student either does not enter full-time teaching within a certain period or ceases such teaching before the end of the five-year service period required for loan cancellations. Gives priority for such loans to minority students, or those otherwise underrepresented in the teaching profession or curricula areas, and to qualified individuals who need such a loan and who demonstrate high academic achievement and potential for success in teaching. Provides for an expedited loan cancellation option for teaching at certain types of schools. Subpart 2: Financial Assistance for Institutional Recruitment and Retention of Individuals Preparing to Enter the Teaching Force - Directs the Secretary to allocate funds under this subpart to State educational agencies (SEAs) for grants to institutions of higher education for programs to recruit and retain students, particularly minority students, preparing to enter the teaching profession (including the profession of certified school library media specialist). Authorizes appropriations. Subpart 3: Professional Development Academies - Directs the Secretary to allocate 95 percent of funds for this subpart among SEAs, on the basis of number of disadvantaged children, to distribute such funds to consortia of local educational agencies (LEAs) for various activities relating to teacher training (including training for library media specialists, counselors, administrators, and other school personnel). Directs the Secretary, from the remaining five percent of funds under this subpart, to award to specified consortia grants to establish professional development academies to provide interstate, international, or other exemplary programs. Limits such grants to five years, with renewal for one additional five-year period. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Presidential Awards for Excellence in Education\n    Amends ESEA to establish the Presidential Awards for Excellence in Education Program to recognize and reward outstanding elementary and secondary school teachers. Authorizes appropriations. Makes any full-time public or private elementary or secondary school teacher of academic or vocational subjects eligible for such an award. Makes teachers of religion (other than religion as an academic discipline) ineligible. Allows various individuals, groups, or institutions to nominate teachers for such awards. Requires State panels to select award recipients using criteria approved by the Secretary. Sets the amount of such an award at $5,000, and allows the recipient to use it for any purpose.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Nontraditional Routes to Teacher Licensure\n    Nontraditional Routes to Teacher Licensure Act of 1990 - Amends HEA to establish a program of assistance for nontraditional routes to teacher licensure, to improve the supply of qualified elementary and secondary school teachers by assisting State programs to help talented professionals who have demonstrated high competence in a subject area and wish to pursue education careers to meet State licensing requirements, with special emphasis on minority group member participation. Authorizes appropriations. Repeals this part as of July 1, 1993.  \n    Part\n    D\n     - \n    National Writing Program\n    Authorizes the Secretary to enter into a contract with the National Writing Project (a nonprofit educational organization) to support costs of programs of teacher training and classroom research to improve the teaching of writing and the quality of student writing and learning. Directs the Project to establish a National Advisory Board. Directs the Secretary, through the Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI), to make grants to individuals and higher education institutions for research on the teaching of writing. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Title\n    VIII\n     - \n    Equal Opportunity for Postsecondary Education\n    Declares it to be the policy of the United States (toward the year 2000 goal that no qualified student be denied the opportunity for postsecondary education because of financial or other barriers): (1) to increase low-income, first-generation-in-college, and minority students' participation in postsecondary education; (2) to expand college assistance to middle income families; (3) to reduce reliance on parent and student loans as the principal means of financing postsecondary education, by increasing appropriations and awards under the Pell Grant program by specified amounts each year; and (4) to enhance postsecondary institutions' capacity to recruit, retain, and provide quality education to low-income, first-generation-in-college, minority students, including graduate students by increasing appropriations to the TRIO programs under HEA by specified amounts each year. Amends HEA to provide for Pell Grant program shortfall adjustments for insufficient appropriations in a fiscal year by requiring expenditures from the next succeeding fiscal year's appropriations. Removes from the computation of expected family contribution in the determination of need for assistance under the Pell Grant program and other HEA title IV student assistance programs the following nonliquid assets: (1) the family's principal place of residence; or (2) a family farm on which the family resides. Directs the Secretary to recommend to the Congress any changes in such HEA provisions necessary to achieve an equitable assessment of income and assets after exclusion of such nonliquid assets. Authorizes appropriations for special awards to historically Black colleges and universities. Makes institutions that receive such awards ineligible for other specified awards. Establishes, under HEA, a student mentor pilot program. Authorizes the Secretary to designate from ten to 100 higher education institutions that may use a portion of their Work-Study program allocations to pay college student mentors to help disadvantaged youths at risk of dropping out of elementary or secondary school.  \n    Title\n    IX\n     - \n    Policy Evaluation and Assessment\n    \n    Part\n    A\n     - \n    Policy Evaluation\n    National Summit Conference on Education Amendments of 1990 - Amends the National Conference on Education Act of 1984 to revise provisions for the National Summit Conference on Education with respect to: (1) Executive Committee membership; (2) regional meetings; and (3) agenda.  \n    Part\n    B\n     - \n    Assessment\n    Authorizes the Secretary, through the Office of Educational Research and Improvement, to make grants to SEAs, LEAs, higher education institutions, and consortia of such agencies and institutions (which consortia may include nonprofit or for-profit agencies) for demonstration projects to develop exemplary and innovative diagnostic assessment systems and policies. Limits an LEA to not more than five fiscal years of such a grant. Requires the Secretary to report biennially to the Congress on such grant program. Authorizes appropriations.  \n    Part\n    C\n     - \n    Amendments to the General Education Provisions Act\n    Amends the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA) to revise provisions relating to National Center for Education Statistics reports to the Congress and their confidentiality. Revises GEPA with respect to the responsibility of States to furnish information to require biennial (rather than annual) reports by SEAs to the Secretary and by the Secretary to specified congressional committees. Modifies the required contents of such reports. Revises GEPA enforcement provisions relating to the Office of Administrative Law Judges, recovery of funds, measure of recovery, and use of recovered funds.  \n    Title\n    X\n     - \n    Planning Grants for Innovative Demonstration Projects and Research\n    Authorizes the Secretary to make grants to SEAs, LEAs, and consortia of such agencies to plan for innovative demonstration projects. Authorizes the use of such funds to plan for the development of: (1) State or local policies and procedures for open enrollment among public schools or programs, and for assisting parents, particularly those of disadvantaged or minority children, to become more involved in their children's education; and (2) improved methods for advancing equity in State and local systems of financing public elementary and secondary education, and for involving businesses and communities in public education. Sets forth application requirements, providing for SEA comment. Gives priority in planning grants (other than those for open enrollment) to projects with the greatest potential to improve education of disadvantaged students and minority students. Gives equal priority in open enrollment planning grants to projects for such students and those for rural students. Authorizes the Secretary, through OERI, to conduct research on open enrollment systems, parental involvement, school finance equalization, and business involvement in public education, and to disseminate such research results. Directs the Secretary to coordinate identification and dissemination of exemplary projects through the National Diffusion Network.  \n    Title\n    XI\n     - \n    Educational Performance Agreements for School Restructuring\n    Establishes a national demonstration program of educational performance agreements for school restructuring, under which: (1) local authorities develop proposals for enabling students to achieve higher performance; (2) schools with such proposals are allowed to combine Federal, State, and local funds under specified Federal laws relating to the education of special needs students, drug education, and training programs (and to waive certain restrictions under such programs); (3) Federal, State, and local protections with respect to civil rights, discrimination, and safety will be upheld; and (4) States will make available funds necessary to plan, develop, monitor, and evaluate local performance agreements. Provides that funding combinations and waiver restrictions may include such types of programs under specified Federal laws in the case of: (1) training programs at the secondary level for children in vocational education courses; and (2) special needs programs at the elementary level for disadvantaged children served under chapter 1 title I of ESEA. Provides for: (1) authority of other Federal agencies; (2) limitations; (3) sunset of combination authority after the sixth year of the agreement; (4) audits; (5) State assurances and State educational performance agreements; (6) local performance agreements and local review and assessment; (7) evaluation and report to the Congress; and (8) assessment to assist the Congress, States, and schools in improving student performance.  \n    Title\n    XII\n     - \n    Suspension of Eligibility for Drug-Related Offenses\n    Amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) to suspend for specified intervals the eligibility for student assistance under title IV of HEA of any individual student convicted of any Federal or State offense involving possession or sale of a controlled substance. Allows such a student to resume eligibility before the end of the ineligibility period (the length of which relates to number and type of offenses) if he or she satisfactorily completes a drug rehabilitation program that meets criteria prescribed by the Secretary."