"10/11/1989--House receded and concurred with amendment. Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Department of Labor\n    Department of Labor Appropriations Act, 1990 - Makes appropriations to the Department of Labor for FY 1990. Makes appropriations for the Employment and Training Administration for: (1) employment and training programs administration; (2) training and employment services; (3) community service employment for older Americans; (4) Federal unemployment benefits and allowances; (5) State unemployment insurance and employment service operations; and (6) advances to the Unemployment Trust Fund and other funds. Requires that specified amounts of funds for training and employment services under the Job Training Partnership Act be used for programs and activities relating to: (1) Native Americans; (2) migrant and seasonal farmworkers; (3) veterans' employment; (4) the National Commission for Employment Policy; (5) the National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee; (6) service delivery areas under rural concentrated employment programs; (7) the Job Corps; and (8) job training for the homeless under the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act. Makes appropriations for Labor-Management Services for salaries and expenses, with a specified amount for a pension plan data base. Makes appropriations for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Fund and other expenses. Makes appropriations for the Employment Standards Administration for: (1) salaries and expenses; (2) special benefits (including transfer of funds); and (3) the Black Lung Disability Trust Fund (including transfer of funds). Makes appropriations for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration for salaries and expenses. Makes appropriations for the Mine Safety and Health Administration for salaries and expenses. Makes appropriations for the Bureau of Labor Statistic for salaries and expenses. Makes appropriations for Departmental Management for: (1) salaries and expenses; (2) the Assistant Secretary for Veterans Employment and Training; and (3) the Office of the Inspector General. Sets forth general provisions relating to such appropriations for the Department of Labor. Prohibits appropriations under this Act from being used to grant variances, interim orders, or letters of clarification to employers which will allow exposure of workers to chemicals or other workplace hazards in excess of existing Occupational Safety and Health Administration standards for the purpose of conducting experiments on workers' health or safety. Directs the Secretary of Labor to convey to the State of Oregon, without consideration, all rights, title, and interest of the United States in the real property and improvements of the Emerald Heights Housing Complex in Astoria, Oregon.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Department of Health and Human Services\n    Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, 1990 - Makes appropriations for the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) for FY 1990. Makes appropriations for the Health Resources and Services Administration for health resources and services program operations under specified provisions of the Public Health Service Act, Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act, Social Security Act, and Health Care Quality Improvement Act of 1986. Earmarks specified amounts for: (1) the Gillis W. Long Hansen's Disease Center; (2) non-acute care facilities for AIDS patients; (3) health care for the homeless; (4) grants to States for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) drug reimbursement; and (5) other specified programs under the Public Health Services Act. Requires that payment of the full estimated cost of Department of HHS administration or operation of an employee health program for any Federal department or agency be made by way of reimbursement or in advances to this appropriation. Makes other appropriations to the Health Resources and Services Administration for: (1) the medical facilities guarantee and loan fund, and Federal interest subsidies for medical facilities; (2) the Health Professions Graduate Student Loan Fund under the Health Education Assistance Loan program; and (3) the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund (requiring such Trust Fund to reimburse the Department of HHS for limited necessary expenses under the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986). Makes appropriations for the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) for disease control, research, and training (including compensation for survivors of victims of the Tuskegee, Alabama, syphilis experiments of 1932 and funds to carry out the National Health and Nutrition Survey). Earmarks specified amounts for CDC high priority construction projects. Requires that certain employees of the Public Health Service and the National Center for Health Statistics be treated as non-Federal employees for specified reporting purposes. Makes appropriations for the National Institutes of Health, for: (1) the National Cancer Institute; (2) the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute; (3) the National Institute of Dental Research; (4) the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases; (5) the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke; (6) the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases; (7) the National Institute of General Medical Sciences; (8) the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development; (9) the National Eye Institute; (10) the National Institute of Environmental Health Services; (11) the National Institute on Aging; (12) the National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases; (13) the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders; (14) research resources; (15) the National Center for Nursing Research; (16) the John E. Fogarty International Center; (17) the National Library of Medicine; (18) the Office of the Director; (19) buildings and facilities; and (20) the National Center for Human Genome Research. Directs the Secretary of HHS to transfer specified funds for each of the Institutes to be available for extramural facilities construction grants, including an appropriate amount for research animal production facilities. Makes appropriations to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration for Public Health Service Act programs relating to mental health, drug abuse, alcohol abuse, alcoholism, and for programs under the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986 and other specified Federal law. Earmarks specified amounts of such funds for: (1) activities for the homeless; and (2) renovation of intramural research facilities. Makes appropriations to the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration for the Federal subsidy for Saint Elizabeths Hospital, in the District of Columbia. Makes appropriations for the Office of Assistant Secretary for Health for: (1) expenses of that Office and of carrying out specified programs under the Public Health Service Act; (2) retirement pay and medical benefits for commissioned officers; and (3) medical treatment effectiveness research. Makes appropriations for the Health Care Financing Administration for: (1) grants to States for Medicaid; (2) payments to the Federal Hospital Insurance and the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Funds; (3) program management; and (4) the Health Maintenance Organization Loan and Loan Guarantee Fund. Makes appropriations for the Social Security Administration for: (1) payments to the Federal Old-Age and Survivors Insurance and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust Funds; (2) special benefits for disabled coal miners; (3) the Supplemental Security Income Program; and (4) a limited amount of administrative expenses. Makes appropriations for the Family Support Administration for: (1) family support payments to States or other non-Federal entities; (2) payments to States for work programs for Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) recipients; (3) low-income home energy assistance; (4) payments under the Community Services Block Grant Act and the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act; (5) program administration; (6) refugee and entrant assistance under the Immigration and Nationality Act and the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (with a specified amount for State cash and medical assistance); and (7) interim assistance grants to States for legalization impact under the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. Makes appropriations for the Assistant Secretary for Human Development Services for: (1) the Social Services Block Grant; (2) human development services; and (3) payments to States for foster care and adoption assistance. Includes under human development services programs for older Americans, Native Americans, developmental disabilities assistance, child abuse and family violence prevention, dependent care, Head Start, child development centers and child development associate scholarships, runaway and homeless youth, children's justice, adoption opportunities, and abandoned infants assistance. Makes appropriations for Departmental Management for: (1) general departmental management; (2) the Office of the Inspector General; (3) the Office for Civil Rights; and (4) policy research. Sets forth general provisions relating to such appropriations for the Department of HHS. Prohibits funds contained in this Act from being used to perform abortions, except: (1) where the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term; and (2) for medical procedures necessary for victims of rape or incest reported promptly to a law enforcement agency or public health service. Declares that payments are not prohibited for drugs or devices to prevent implantation of the fertilized ovum or for medical procedures necessary to terminate an ectopic pregnancy. Prohibits funds appropriated under this Act from being used to carry out any program of distributing sterile needles for the hypodermic injection of any illegal drug or bleach for the purpose of cleansing needles for such hypodermic injection unless the President certifies that such programs: (1) are effective in stopping the spread of HIV; and (2) do not encourage the use of illegal drugs. Provides that, if the President does so certify, the General Accounting Office shall conduct a study of programs relating to distribution of sterile needles and report the findings to the Congress and the President within 90 days. Requires that AIDS education programs that receive assistance from the Centers for Disease Control and other education curricula dealing with sexual activity that receive assistance under this Act: (1) shall not be designed to promote or encourage, directly, intravenous drug abuse or sexual activity, homosexual or heterosexual; and (2) with regard to AIDS education programs and curricula, shall be designed to reduce exposure to and transmission of the etiologic agent for AIDS by providing accurate information, including information on the health risks of promiscuous sexual activity and intravenous drug abuse. Directs the Secretary of HHS to assign not more than 60 Public Health Service employees to assist in child survival activities and to work in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) programs through and with funds provided by the Agency for International Development, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, or the World Health Organization. Allows funds available in this title (except for FY 1990) for activities related to AIDS to be transferred between appropriation accounts by the Secretary of HHS. Prohibits funds under this Act or any other law from being used by NIH, any other Federal agency, or any recipient of Federal funds (including recipients located outside of the United States) for any project that entails the capture or procurement of chimpanzees obtained from the wild. Prohibits the use of funds under this title to pay for any research or experimental program involving danger of physical, mental, or emotional damage to human participants without their written, informed consent. Directs the National Institutes of Health to ensure that all experimental drugs for the treatment of AIDS that have shown some effectiveness in individual treatment are tested in clinical trials as expeditiously as possible and with as many subjects as is scientifically acceptable. Prohibits funds under this title for the National Institutes of Health and the Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Administration from being used to pay the salary of any individual, through a grant or other extramural mechanism, at a rate in excess of $120,000 per year. Renames: (1) the Consolidated Office Building as the William H. Natcher Building; (2) the Child Health Neurosciences Building as the Silvio O. Conte Building; (3) the Stone House as the Lawton Chiles International House; and (4) Building Number 36 as the Lowell P. Weicker Building. Reduces funds for the National Institutes of Health by a specified amount as a result of improved procurement policies and other specified savings. Prohibits, during FY 1990, any funds under this Act from being used to impose a payment reduction upon, or to seek repayment from, or to withhold payment to any State under Social Security Act provisions for Child Welfare Services or for Foster Care and Adoption Assistance, as a result of a disallowance determination in connection with a a compliance review for any fiscal year preceding FY 1990, until all related judicial proceedings, including appeals, have been finally concluded. Prohibits any use of such funds to conduct further compliance reviews with respect to any State which is a party to such judicial proceedings until such final conclusion.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Department of Education\n    Department of Education Appropriations Act, 1990 - Makes appropriations for FY 1990 to the Department of Education for various programs under the following general categories: (1) compensatory education for the disadvantaged; (2) impact aid; (3) school improvement programs; (4) bilingual, immigrant, and refugee education; (5) education for the handicapped; (6) rehabilitation services and handicapped research; (7) special institutions for the handicapped (the American Printing House for the Blind; the National Technical Institute for the Deaf, the Kendall Demonstration Elementary School, the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, and Gallaudet University, including continuing education activities, existing extension centers and the National Center for Law and the Deaf); (8) vocational and adult education; (9) student financial assistance (including Pell grants, supplemental educational opportunity grants, grants to States for loan demonstration projects, and direct loans to students in institutions of higher education); (10) the Guaranteed Student Loan program; (11) higher education assistance (including programs under specified provisions of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961); (12) Howard University; (13) college housing and academic facilities loans; (14) higher education facilities loans; (15) college housing loans; (16) education research and statistics (including the National Assessment of Educational Progress and a rural education program); and (17) libraries. Earmarks a specified amount for supporting a consortium of institutions to provide education and vocational rehabilitation services for low functioning adults who are deaf. Earmarks specified amounts for the new Merit Schools program and the new Magnet Schools of Excellence Program, if such programs are specifically authorized by law before March 1, 1990. Sets forth certain prohibitions and refund requirements for student aid programs. Grants college financial aid administrators discretionary authority to make certain adjustments in need analysis. Makes appropriations for Departmental Management for: (1) program administration; (2) the Office for Civil Rights; and (3) the Office of the Inspector General. Sets forth general provisions relating to such appropriations for the Department of Education. Prohibits funds under this title from being used to force any school or school district which is desegregated to take any action to force the busing of students or the school's abolishment or the transfer of students to or from the school, on account of race, creed, or color, over the protest of the student's parents or as a condition precedent to obtaining otherwise available Federal funds. Prohibits appropriations in this Act from being used for the transportation of students or teachers (or the purchase of equipment for such transportation) to overcome racial imbalance or carry out a racial desegregation plan in any school or school system. Prohibits funds under this Act from being used, directly or indirectly, to require the transportation of any student to a school other than the school nearest the student's home (including any indirect requirement of student transportation to carry out a plan involving the reorganization of the grade structure of schools, the pairing of schools, or the clustering of schools). Excludes from such prohibition: (1) transportation of students requiring special education to a school for such purpose; and (2) the establishment of magnet schools. Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in the public schools.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Makes appropriations for the following agencies: (1) the ACTION Agency; (2) The Corporation for Public Broadcasting; (3) the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service; (4) the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission; (5) the National Commission on Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; (6) the National Commission on Children; (7) the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science; (8) the National Commission to Prevent Infant Mortality; (9) the National Council on Disability; (10) the National Labor Relations Board; (11) the National Mediation Board; (12) the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission; (13) the Physician Payment Review Commission; (14) the Prescription Drug Payment Review Commission; (15) the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission; (16) the Railroad Retirement Board (for payment to the Dual Benefits Payments Account and to the railroad retirement accounts, with specified limitations on administrative expenses, the railroad unemployment insurance administration fund, and review activities); (17) the Soldiers' and Airmen's Home (for operation and maintenance, and for construction and renovation of the physical plant); (18) the United States Bipartisan Commission on Comprehensive Health Care; (19) the United States Institute of Peace; and (20) the White House Conference on Library and Information Services.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Sets forth general provisions relating to appropriations under this Act. Expresses the sense of the Congress that colleges and universities should demand drug-free campuses and enforce strict but fair policies to eliminate drug use by students. Limits the amounts which may be used by the Departments receiving funds under this Act to procure advisory or assistance services. Requires the head of each such Department to report quarterly to the Congress and the Comptroller General on the amount obligated and expended for such procurement. Requires such reports to include a justification for the award of each such contract and the reason the work cannot be performed by civil servants. Directs the Comptroller General to review such reports and submit recommendations to the Congress. Prohibits funds under this Act from being used to execute or carry out any contract with a nongovernmental entity to administer or manage a Civilian Conservation Center of the Job Corps. Reduces funds for salaries and expenses for labor-management Services and for the Employment Standards Administration. Reduces funds for salaries and expenses of the Department of Health and Human Services. Prohibits that no trust fund limitation shall be reduced. Declares transfers in specified accounts to be necessary (but secondary) results of significant policy changes under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Reaffirmation Act of 1987 (thus allowing such transfers between fiscal years to be treated as altering the deficit or producing a net deficit reduction)."