"10/22/1990--House receded and concurred with amendment. Rural Development, Agriculture, and Related Agencies Appropriations Acts, 1991 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Agricultural Programs\n    Appropriates funds for FY 1991 for the following programs and services: (1) Office of the Secretary of Agriculture; (2) Office of the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture; (3) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Administration; (4) Office of Budget and Program Analysis; (5) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Congressional Relations; (6) Office of the Inspector General; (7) Office of the General Counsel; (8) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Economics; (9) Economic Research Service; (10) National Agricultural Statistics Service; (11) World Agricultural Outlook Board; (12) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Science and Education; (13) Agricultural Research Service; (14) Cooperative State Research Service; (15) Extension Service; (16) National Agricultural Library; (17) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Marketing and Inspection Services; (18) Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; (19) Food Safety and Inspection Service; (20) Federal Grain Inspection Service; (21) Agricultural Cooperative Service; (22) Agricultural Marketing Service; (23) Office of Transportation; (24) Packers and Stockyards Administration; (25) Office of the Under Secretary for International Affairs and Commodity Programs; (26) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service; (27) Dairy Indemnity Program; (28) Federal Crop Insurance Corporation; (29) Commodity Credit Corporation; (30) Departmental Administration; and (31) Office of Public Affairs.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Rural Development Programs\n    Appropriates funds for rural development assistance as follows: (1) Office of the Under Secretary for Small Community and Rural Development; (2) Farmers Home Administration (FmHA); (3) Rural Electrification Administration; (4) Soil Conservation Service; (5) Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service; and (6) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Domestic Food Programs\n    Appropriates funds for the: (1) Office of the Assistant Secretary for Food and Consumer Services; (2) Food and Nutrition Service (including the following programs: Child Nutrition; School Lunch; Special Milk; Special Supplemental Food for Women, Infants, and Children; Commodity Supplemental Food; Food Donations for Selected Groups; Temporary Emergency Food Assistance; and Food Stamp Program); and (3) Human Nutrition Information Service.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    International Programs\n    Appropriates funds for: (1) the Foreign Agricultural Service; (2) the Ameri Flora '92 Exposition, the first international horticulture and environment exposition to be held in the United States; (3) Public Law 480 (financing the sale of agricultural commodities for convertible foreign currencies); (4) the Office of International Cooperation and Development; and (5) scientific activities overseas.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    Related Agencies\n    Appropriates funds for the: (1) Food and Drug Administration; (2) Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation; (3) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; and (4) Farm Credit Administration.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    General Provisions\n    Specifies certain uses and limits on or prohibitions against use of funds appropriated by this Act. Prohibits the use of funds to carry out any activity related to phasing out the Resource Conservation and Development Program. Prohibits the payment of any funds out of the Treasury to any private individual or corporation in satisfaction of a loan guarantee entered into by a Federal agency or corporation with respect to loans made and credits extended to the Polish People's Republic, unless: (1) the Republic has been declared to be in default of its debt to such individual or corporation; or (2) the President has provided a monthly written report to specified congressional leaders justifying any such payments during the previous month. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to initiate construction on not less than 20 new projects under the Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act and not less than five new projects under the Flood Control Act. Prohibits the use of funds under any Act to relocate the Hawaii State Office of the FmHA from Hilo, Hawaii, to Honolulu, Hawaii. Prohibits employee reductions below specified levels for the Food and Drug Administration, FmHA, the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service, the Rural Electrification Administration, and the Soil Conservation Service. Prohibits the use of funds under specified conditions to pay the salaries of personnel carrying out: (1) the targeted export assistance program; and (2) the export enhancement program. Directs the Secretary of Agriculture to use specified authority to sell surplus agricultural commodities in world trade at competitive prices in order to regain and retain the U.S. fair share of world markets. Earmarks additional funds to purchase sunflower and cottonseed oil to facilitate international sales of such oil. Requires the absorption of FY 1991 pay raises within appropriated levels. Prohibits the use of funds to pay indirect costs on research grants awarded competitively by the Cooperative State Research Service that exceed 14 percent of total direct costs under each award. Prohibits use of funds in this Act to establish any new office, organization, or center for which funds have not been provided in advance in Appropriations Acts, but allows the Department of Agriculture to carry out planning activities."