"8/2/1990--Passed House amended. Sanctions Against Iraq Act of 1990 - \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Imposition of Trade Embargo\n    Sets forth congressional declarations concerning Iraq's invasion of Kuwait. Requires the President to inform and consult with the Congress regarding the international crisis caused by such invasion, including U.S. actions. Directs the President to impose the following sanctions against Iraq: (1) blocking of all Iraqi property within the possession or control of the United States; (2) prohibiting the importation of Iraqi goods or services (other than publications); (3) prohibiting the exportation of U.S. goods (including agricultural products) and technology or services, except publications, food, and medical supplies, to Iraq; and (4) prohibiting any transportation involving Iraq or Iraqi persons, vessels, or aircraft.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Additional Sanctions with Respect to Iraq\n    Sets forth congressional findings with respect to human rights violations by Iraq. Prohibits: (1) the United States from selling any items on the United States Munitions List to Iraq; (2) the issuing of licenses for the export of such items to Iraq; and (3) the issuing of licenses under the Export Administration Act of 1979 for the export to Iraq of chemical or biological agents for the production of chemical or biological weapons. Presumes denial of export license applications for the export of goods or technology: (1) which could enhance the ability of Iraq to support international terrorism; (2) to an end user in such country that is engaged in missile or chemical or biological weapons proliferation activities; or (3) where there is a risk of diversion to weapons proliferation activities. Sets forth a list of specified items for which a license is required to export such items to Iraq. Prohibits the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or the Secretary of Commerce from issuing a license for the export of nuclear material or technology to Iraq. Requires the United States to oppose any loan or financial or technical assistance to Iraq by international financial institutions. Requires the denial of credits or credit guarantees through the Export-Import Bank to Iraq. Authorizes the President to waive the sanctions authorized under this Act in certain circumstances if he certifies to the Congress Iraq's compliance with specified demands. Calls upon the President to seek multilateral cooperation to: (1) deny dangerous technologies to Iraq; and (2) induce such country to respect internationally recognized human rights, especially in the areas in northern Iraq which are inhabited by Kurds."