"6/30/1995--Passed Senate amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness Redesignation Title II: Alaska Peninsula Subsurface Consolidation Title III: Sterling Forest Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness Redesignation Act of 1995\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Anaktuvuk Pass Land Exchange and Wilderness Redesignation\n    Ratifies and confirms the agreement between the United States, the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation, the Nunamiut Corporation, and the city of Anaktuvuk Pass executed on December 17, 1992. Requires the lands acquired by the United States pursuant to such Agreement to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as part of the Gates of the Arctic National Park and Preserve. Amends the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act to provide for the addition and the rescission of lands within the Gates of the Arctic Wilderness. Provides for the addition of lands within the Noatak National Preserve and Noatak Wilderness.  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Alaska Peninsula Subsurface Consolidation\n    Directs the Secretary of the Interior to value the rights granted to Koniag, Incorporated, pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act to receive title to the oil and gas rights and other interests in the subsurface estate of specified public lands in Alaska (selection rights) which Koniag possesses within the boundaries of Aniakchak National Monument and Preserve, Alaska Peninsula National Wildlife Refuge, and Becharof National Wildlife Refuge. Specifies that the value of such rights shall be equal to the fair market value of: (1) the oil and gas interests in the lands that are the subject of the selection rights; and (2) in the case of the lands for which Koniag is to receive the entire subsurface estate, the subsurface estate of the lands that are the subject of such rights. Directs the Secretary and Koniag to meet to select a qualified appraiser to conduct an appraisal of the selection rights in conformity with the standards of the Appraisal Foundation of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) submission of the appraisal report; (2) determination of the value of the selection rights; and (3) an alternative determination of value if Koniag disagrees with the value determined by the Secretary. Prohibits the average value per acre of the selection rights from being less than the value utilizing the risk adjusted discount cash flow methodology or more than $300. Directs the Secretary: (1) to enter into negotiations for an agreement to exchange Federal lands in Alaska for the selection rights; and (2) if, after ten years after the enactment of this Act such exchanges to acquire all of the selection rights have not been concluded, to conclude exchanges for the remaining rights for such Federal property identified by Koniag that is available for transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary under any provision of law and, at the time of the proposed transfer to Koniag, is not generating receipts to the Government above $1 million per year. Exempts such property from the geographic limitations of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and allows it to be retained by the Secretary solely for transferring purposes to Koniag to complete the exchange. Gives Koniag the option of declining to proceed with the exchange and identifying other property or paying the difference in value between the property and the selection rights if the value of the identified property is in excess of the value of the remaining selection rights.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Sterling Forest\n    Sterling Forest Protection Act of 1995 - Establishes the Sterling Forest Reserve, New York, upon certification by the Palisades Interstate Park Commission to the Secretary of the Interior that the Commission has acquired sufficient lands or interests therein to constitute a manageable unit. Sets forth provisions regarding: (1) Reserve boundaries; (2) the transfer of funds to the Commission for land acquisition; and (3) conditions of funding (including provision for specified conservation easements and that funds may be transferred to the Commission only to the extent that they are matched from funds contributed by non-Federal sources). Directs the Commission to: (1) manage the lands acquired within the Reserve in a manner consistent with the Commission's authorities and the protection of significant watershed, wildlife, and recreational resources within the New York-New Jersey highlands region; and (2) prepare a general management plan for the Reserve, to be submitted to the Secretary for approval. Authorizes appropriations. Limits the amount that may be transferred to the Commission for the acquisition of lands and interests in land within the Reserve."