"2/16/1995--Passed House amended. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Findings, Policy, and Purposes Title II: Policy Regarding Priority for Missile Defense Programs Title III: Advisory Commission on Revitalization of National Security Title IV: Command of United States Forces Title V: United Nations Title VI: Expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Title VII: Budget Firewalls National Security Revitalization Act\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Findings, Policy, and Purposes\n    Sets forth as purposes of this Act: (1) to establish an advisory commission to assess U.S. military needs and address the problems posed by a continuing decline in defense spending; (2) to commit to acceleration of the development and deployment of theater and national ballistic missile defense capabilities; (3) to restrict deployment of U.S. forces to missions that are in the national interest; (4) to maintain U.S. command and control of U.S. forces participating in United Nations (UN) peacekeeping operations and to reduce the cost to the United States of such operations; and (5) to reemphasize the U.S. commitment to a strong and viable North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).  \n    Title\n    II\n     - \n    Policy Regarding Priority for Missile Defense Programs\n    Expresses as U.S. policy with respect to the priority for development and deployment of missile defense programs: (1) ensuring operational readiness of the armed forces and accomplishing programmed modernization of weapons systems; (2) completing the development and deployment of more effective theater missile defense (TMD) systems; and (3) developing a ground-based interceptor system. Expresses the sense of the Congress that further formal negotiations in the Standing Consultative Commission, any informal discussions with regard to the demarcation between TMD systems and anti-ballistic missile (ABM) systems, or any other effort that bears on the viability of the ABM Treaty should be suspended until the 104th Congress has the opportunity to review such matters. Provides that of the total amount made available to the Department of Defense (DOD) for FY 1996, the amount obligated for national missile defense programs may exceed the amount made available for such programs in FY 1995. Requires certain congressional findings to be considered in carrying out national missile defense programs. Expresses the sense of the Congress that an effective national and TMD capability is essential to ensuring that U.S. forces are ready to meet current and expected threats to U.S. national security.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Advisory Commission on Revitalization of National Security\n    Establishes the Revitalization of National Security Commission to conduct a comprehensive review of the long-term U.S. national security needs. Requires an interim and final report from the Commission to designated congressional committees on its assessments and recommendations. Prohibits the Secretary of the Army, during the period between the enactment of this Act and the submission of the interim report, from implementing the plan to reorganize the Army Reserve's continental U.S. headquarters that was announced by the Secretary on January 4, 1995. Terminates the Commission upon submission of its final report. Provides funding.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Command of United States Forces\n    Prohibits funds made available to DOD from being obligated or expended for activities of any element of the armed forces that after the date of enactment of this Act is placed under UN command or control. Waives such prohibition if the President, at least 15 days in advance, certifies to the Congress that such command or control is necessary to protect U.S. national security interests. Allows the President, in emergency situations, to allow such UN command or control without the advance notification, but requires congressional notification within 48 hours after such action. Outlines certification requirements. Provides exceptions for placement of U.S. armed forces: (1) authorized specifically by law; or (2) in an operation conducted by NATO. Requires the President to submit to the Congress a memorandum of legal points and authorities explaining why the foreign placement of U.S. military personnel does not violate the Constitution. Excepts ongoing operations in Macedonia and Croatia from the above requirements. \n    Section\n    402\n     - \n    \n    Amends the United Nations Participation Act of 1945 (the Act) to require approval by the Congress, by law, of any presidential action which makes available to the UN Security Council U.S. armed forces for international peace and security activities. Provides exceptions: (l) in the case of presidential certifications, as above; (2) when such action is authorized by law; and (3) for the use of U.S. troops in an operation conducted by NATO. Outlines certification requirements and provides an exception for ongoing operations in Macedonia and Croatia. Requires the President to submit to the Congress the same legal memorandum as required above.  \n    Title\n    V\n     - \n    United Nations\n    Amends the Act to specifically limit the U.S. assessment for UN expenditures in support of international peacekeeping operations. Requires crediting to the United States by the UN for the costs of U.S. support for, or participation in, such activities. Directs the President to annually submit to designated congressional committees a report on the total amount of any fiscal year's costs incurred by DOD to support such activities. \n    Section\n    502\n     - \n    \n    Codifies within the Act specified provisions of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1994 and 1995 concerning the required notification to the Congress of proposed UN peacekeeping activities. Requires within such notification a description of any uncovered U.S. assistance to or support for such activities. Excludes from such notification any intelligence activity reportable under title V of the National Security Act of 1947. Defines a new UN peacekeeping operation as one to be expanded by more than 25 percent during the period covered, or one to be authorized to operate in a country in which it was not previously authorized.  \n    Section\n    503\n     - \n    \n    Requires presidential notification to designated congressional committees within 15 days: (1) after receipt by the United States of a billing request from the UN for the U.S. contribution toward UN peacekeeping activities; or (2) before the U.S. obligates funds for such contributions (except for emergencies, in which case notification is required within 48 hours of such obligation).  \n    Section\n    505\n     - \n    \n    Requires, in a report required under the Act, a description of the anticipated budget for the next fiscal year for U.S. participation in UN peacekeeping activities.  \n    Section\n    506\n     - \n    \n    Authorizes the Secretary, in emergency circumstances, to waive the requirement for reimbursement to the United States for in-kind contributions to UN peacekeeping activities. Requires appropriate notification to the designated congressional committees. Directs the Secretary of State to ensure that U.S. goods provided by DOD on a reimbursable basis for UN peacekeeping activities are reimbursed at the appropriate value. Directs the U.S. Permanent Representative to the UN to report to the designated congressional committees on all U.S. action taken to achieve such objectives.  \n    Section\n    507\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits appropriated funds from being used in any fiscal year to pay any U.S. assessed or voluntary contribution for UN peacekeeping activities until the Secretary certifies to the designated congressional committees that the UN has reimbursed DOD directly for all goods and services provided during the previous fiscal year for such activities.  \n    Section\n    508\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits, beginning October 1, 1995, funds made available to DOD from being used to make a financial contribution to the UN for the costs of a UN peacekeeping activity or for any U.S. arrearage to the UN.  \n    Section\n    509\n     - \n    \n    Codifies within the Act a specified provision which limits the use of funds authorized for Contributions for International Peacekeeping Activities for payment of the U.S. assessed contribution for a UN peacekeeping operation to 20 percent of the total amount of all assessed contributions for such operation, as well as any arrearages that accumulate as a result of assessments in excess of such amount.  \n    Section\n    510\n     - \n    \n    Prohibits funds from being obligated or expended for U.S. contributions to UN peacekeeping activities unless the Secretary of State determines and certifies to the designated congressional committees that U.S. manufacturers and suppliers are being given opportunities equal to foreign manufacturers and suppliers to provide equipment, material, and services for such activities.  \n    Section\n    511\n     - \n    \n    Withholds specified percentages of U.S. assessed and voluntary contributions toward UN peacekeeping activities until receipt by the Congress of a certification by the President that the UN, through its Office of Inspector General, has undertaken certain prescribed activities with respect to a financial and management accounting of UN peacekeeping activities.  \n    Section\n    512\n     - \n    \n    Requires the President, before intelligence is provided to the UN by the United States, to ensure that the CIA Director has established guidelines governing the provision of intelligence to the UN which protects intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized disclosure in accordance with provisions of the National Security Act of 1947. Requires periodic reports from the President on the types and purpose of intelligence provided to the UN and special reports concerning any unauthorized disclosure of intelligence. Directs the Secretary of State to work with the UN to improve the handling, processing, dissemination, and management of all intelligence provided to it by its members.  \n    Section\n    513\n     - \n    \n    Requires a report from the Secretary of State to the Congress on the amounts paid by the UN during 1994 as compensation for expenses incurred by nations which have provided forces for UN peacekeeping activities. Requires inclusion in such report of a plan for actions for reforming the existing system for reimbursement to such nations for such costs.  \n    Title\n    VI\n     - \n    Expansion of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization\n    NATO Expansion Act of 1995 - Declares that it should be U.S. policy: (1) to continue the commitment to an active leadership role in NATO; (2) to join with NATO allies to redefine the role of the alliance in the post-Cold War world, taking into account specified factors; (3) to affirm that NATO military planning should include joint military operations beyond the geographic bounds of the alliance under the North Atlantic Treaty when the shared interests of the United States and other member countries require such actions to defend vital interests; (4) that Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, and Slovakia should be permitted to join NATO in the near future as long as each country meets specified standards and undertakes certain commitments; (5) that the United States, other NATO member nations, and NATO itself should furnish appropriate assistance to enable such countries to achieve membership; (6) that any other European country emerging from communist domination should be invited to become a full member of NATO, provided it meets such standards and commitments; (7) that the United States, other member nations of NATO, and NATO itself should facilitate the transition of other European countries to full NATO membership at the appropriate time; (8) that certain policy decisions of the North Atlantic Council should be reaffirmed with respect to admitting new NATO members only by amendment to the North Atlantic Treaty; (9) that the expansion of NATO should be defensive in nature and increase stability for all European nations; and (10) that NATO and its members should work to strengthen other structures of security in Europe. \n    Section\n    604\n     - \n    \n    Directs the President to establish a program to assist the transition to full NATO membership of Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and any other European country emerging from communist domination that is designated by the President. Outlines types of assistance to be provided. Prohibits the President from providing assistance to any country selling or transferring defense articles to a state that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism as determined by the Secretary of State. Requires: (1) a report from the President to designated congressional committees prior to providing assistance to a country for the first time through the program; and (2) annual reports from the President to the appropriate congressional committees on the progress made in implementing this section.  \n    Title\n    VII\n     - \n    Budget Firewalls\n    Expresses the sense of the Congress that so-called \"budget firewalls\" between defense and domestic discretionary spending should be established for each of FY 1996 through 1998."