"1/25/1996--Introduced. TABLE OF CONTENTS: \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    Unnamed Title II: Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Title III: Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Title IV: Housing and Urban Development Balanced Budget Downpayment Act, I\n     \n    Title\n    I\n     - \n    - Makes appropriations for FY 1996 to carry out, at rates not to exceed the current operating rate, the following: (1) the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996; and (2) the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996. (Sec. 106) Makes appropriations available until the earlier of: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) enactment of the applicable appropriations Act without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) March 15, 1996. (Sec. 111) Provides that, except for section 106 provisions, whenever one of the above listed Acts as passed does not include funding for an ongoing project or activity such project or activity may be continued at a rate that is reduced from the current level by 25 percent. (Sec. 112) Provides that, notwithstanding other provisions of this Act, except section 106, whenever the rate of operations for any continuing project or activity for which there is a budget request would result in a furlough of Government employees such rate may be increased to minimum level that would enable the furlough to be avoided. (Sec. 115) Provides that, except for section 106, the rate for operations of the following projects or activities shall be only the minimum necessary to accomplish orderly termination: (1) Child Development Associates Scholarships in the Department of health and Human Services; (2) Dependent Care Planning and Development in the Department of Health and Human Services; (3) Law Related Education in the Department of Education; (4) Dropout Prevention Demonstrations in the Department of Education; (5) Aid for Institutional development- Endowment grants in the Department of Education; (6) Aid for Institutional Development-Evaluation in the Department of Education; (7) Native Hawaiian and Alaska Native Cultural Arts; (8) Innovative Projects in Community Service in the Department of Education; (9) Cooperative Education in the Department of Education; and (10) Douglas Teacher Scholarships in the Department of Education. (Sec. 116) Requires any Federal employees furloughed as a result of any lapse in appropriations after midnight November 13, 1995, until enactment of this Act to be compensated at their standard rate of compensation during the lapse. (Sec. 117) Provides that, except for section 106, upon enactment of this Act any new grants or contracts for the following programs shall be made at a level not to exceed a rate of 75 percent of prior monthly awards: (1) in the Department of Health and Human Services: (a) Health Resources and Services Administration; Health Resources and Services: Trauma Care and Health Care Facilities; (b) Assistant Secretary for Health; Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health: National Vaccine Program, Health Care Reform Data Analysis, and National AIDS Program Office; (c) Health Care Financing Administration; Program Management: Essential Access Community Hospitals; (d) Administration for Children and Families; Children and Families Services Program: Youth Gang Substance Abuse, Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect, Child Welfare Research, Homeless Service Grants, and Community Schools (crime trust fund); (e) Administration on Aging; Aging Services Program: Pension Counseling, Federal Council on Aging, and White House Conference on Aging; (2) in the Department of Education: (a) Education for the Disadvantaged: State School Improvement; (b) School Improvement Programs; Safe and Drug Free Schools and Communities: National Program Women's Educational Equity; (c) Bilingual and Immigrant Education: Bilingual Education Support Services; (d) Higher Education: Faculty Development Fellowships and School, College, and University Partnerships; and (3) in Related Agencies: (a) Corporation for National and Community Service; Domestic Volunteer Service Programs, Operating Expenses: Senior Demonstration Program; and (b) National Education Standards and Improvement Council. (Sec. 118) Places specified limits on cabinet level travel. (Sec. 119) Limits a Pell Grant during 1996-1997 to a maximum of $2,440. (Sec. 121) Provides for the sale of the property located at 501 First Street, Southeast, District of Columbia. (Sec. 122) Appropriates sums necessary for all projects and activities funded under the account heading \"Office for Civil Rights\" under the Office of the Secretary in the Department of Health and Human Services at a specified rate. (Sec. 123) Funds activities necessary to effect the following program eliminations and transfers of selected functions at a rate of operations provided for in the conference report on the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996: (1) all projects and activities under the account heading \"Public Development\" under the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation; (2) all projects and activities under the account heading \"Mines and Minerals\" under the Bureau of Mines in the Department of the Interior; (3) all activities related to the transfer of functions from the Bureau of Mines under the account heading \"Management of Lands and Resources\" under the Bureau of Land Management in the Department of the Interior; (4) all activities related to the transfers of functions from the Bureau of Mines and from the National Biological Service under the account heading \"Surveys, Investigations, and Research\" under the U.S. Geological Survey in the Department of the Interior; and (5) all activities related to the transfer of functions from the Bureau of Mines under the account heading \"Fossil Energy Research and Development\" in the Department of Energy. (Sec. 124) Makes appropriations available for section 123 until the earlier of: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) enactment of the applicable appropriations Act without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) March 15, 1996. (Sec. 125) Provides for the sale of Weeks Island oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. (Sec. 126) Appropriates amounts necessary, under conditions provided for in the applicable FY 1995 appropriations Act to continue at a rate of operations provided for in the conference report on the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, the following projects or activities, which are conducted in FY 1995, of the Indian Health Services, Indian Health Service Facilities, Bureau of Indian Affairs, National Park Service, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Forest Service. Makes such appropriations available until the earlier of: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) enactment of the applicable appropriations Act without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) March 15, 1996. (Sec. 128) Prohibits any funds made available in PL 104-91 form being used for: (1) the creation of a human embryo or embryos for research purposes; or (2) research in which a human embryo or embryos are destroyed, discarded, or knowingly subjected to risk of injury or death greater than that allowed for research under applicable Federal regulations. (Sec. 131) Appropriates additional funds to repair flood damage to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historic Park. Title II: Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations\n    Appropriates necessary amounts at a rate of operations provided for in the conference report on the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, subject to exceptions. Stipulates that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the rate of operations only for program administration and the continuation of grants awarded in FY 1995 and prior years may be increased up to a level of 75 percent of the final FY 1995 appropriated amount for the Advanced Technology Program of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, and the Ounce of Prevention Council, Drug Courts, Global Learning and Observations to Benefit the Environment, and Cops on the Beat Program. Appropriates necessary amounts at a rate of operations provided for in the conference report on the Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1996, subject to exceptions. Stipulates that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the rate of operations for may be increased up to a level of 75 percent of the FY 1995 level for the Corporation for National and Community Service, the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, and the Office of Consumer Affairs. \n    Section\n    202\n     - \n    \n    Makes appropriations under this title available until the earlier of: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) enactment of the applicable appropriations Act without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) March 15, 1996.  \n    Section\n    208\n     - \n    \n    Amends Public Law 104-92 to make FY 1996 appropriations to continue all activities necessary to provide all veterans' benefits.  \n    Title\n    III\n     - \n    Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations\n    Makes FY 1996 appropriations, at a rate of operations provided for in the conference report, for the programs and activities of the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 1996. Inserts in such conference report, in lieu of Senate amendment 115, a provision which prohibits, subject to provisos, funds being made available for population planning activities or other population assistance under specified Federal law, unless such funding is expressly authorized by law. \n    Section\n    302\n     - \n    \n    Makes appropriations under this title available until the earlier of: (1) enactment of an appropriation for any project or activity provided for in this Act; (2) enactment of the applicable appropriations Act without any provision for such project or activity; or (3) March 15, 1996.  \n    Title\n    IV\n     - \n    Housing and Urban Development\n    Authorizes the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, during FY 1996, to manage and dispose of multifamily properties owned by the Secretary, including the provision for grants from the General insurance Fund for the necessary costs of rehabilitation and other related development costs and multifamily mortgages held by the Secretary. \n    Section\n    402\n     - \n    \n    Directs public housing agencies to: (1) require each family who is assisted under the certificate or moderate rehabilitation program under section 8 to pay a minimum monthly rent of at least $25, but not more than $50; (2) reduce the monthly assistance payment on behalf of each family assisted under section 8 voucher program so that the family pays a minimum monthly rent of at least $25, but not more than $50; (3) require each assisted family under the public housing program to pay a minimum monthly rent of $25, but not more than $50. Requires, for other section 8 rental assistance programs that each assisted family pay a minimum monthly rent of $25, but not more than $25. Amends the United States Housing Act of 1937 to permit a public housing agency to: (1) adopt ceiling rents that reflect the reasonable market value of the housing, but that are not less than the monthly costs of operating the agency and making a deposit to a monthly reserve; and (2) allow families to pay such ceiling rents unless such rent would exceed the family's rent. Permits a public housing agency to adopt other adjustments to income. Requires a public housing agency to establish a written system of preferences for admission to public housing that is not inconsistent with the comprehensive housing affordability strategy under title I of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act. Revises tenant selection provisions concerning section 8 and moderate rehabilitation, section 8 voucher program, and section 8 new construction and substantial rehabilitation.  \n    Section\n    403\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development to establish fair market rentals for purposes of section 8(c)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 that shall be based on the 40th percentile rent of rental distributions of standard quality rental units.  \n    Section\n    404\n     - \n    \n    Repeals, retroactive to November 28, 1990, provisions of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act that placed a maximum annual limitation on rent increases resulting from employment.  \n    Section\n    405\n     - \n    \n    Directs the Secretary to use amounts available for the renewal of section 8 assistance, upon termination of a contract for such assistance, to provide assistance under such section for the eligible families assisted under contracts at termination.  \n    Section\n    406\n     - \n    \n    Extends for one year the demonstration program of insurance of home equity conversion mortgages for elderly homeowners.  \n    Section\n    407\n     - \n    \n    Permits the Secretary to pay insurance benefits to an FHA single-family mortgagee to recompense the mortgagee for actions to provide an alternative to foreclosure of a mortgage in default. Permits the Secretary to establish a program for the payment of a partial claim to a mortgagee that agrees to apply the claim amount to payment of a mortgage on a one-to-four family residence in default."